Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia 1st COVID-19-related death in Canada recorded in B.C. The first COVID-19-related death in Canada has been recorded in B.C. Social Sharing Male resident in North Vancouver care home dies from coronavirus Karin Larsen · CBC News · Posted: Mar 09, 2020 10:43 AM PT | Last Updated: March 9, 2020 Media interview a man whose mother lives at the nursing home on Monday. (Ben Nelms/CBC) comments The first COVID-19-related death in Canada has been recorded in B.C. A man in his 80s who lived at a North Vancouver nursing home died late Sunday, according to provincial health officer Dr. Bonnie Henry. The man had pre-existing health problems prior to contracting the coronavirus, Henry said.  The Lynn Valley Care Centre facility was identified as a COVID-19 hotspot three days ago. "This is obviously a very sad day for all of us, but especially for the family and loved ones," said B.C. Health Minister Adrian Dix at a news conference in Victoria on Monday.  Henry said a female resident of the home in her 70s has also tested positive for the virus and is in stable condition. WATCH | Dr. Bonnie Henry announces first COVID-19-related death in Canada: COVID-19 claims first victim in Canada Canada1 year ago 1:25A male resident of the Lynn Valley Care Centre in North Vancouver has become the first person to die of COVID-19 in Canada. 1:25 Officials from Vancouver Coastal Health have been at the home since a health-care worker there, a woman in her 50s identified as "Case 21," was diagnosed with the virus last week. Henry said Case 21 is not believed to have brought the virus into the home, nor is a second health-care worker who also tested positive. Henry says it is believed both workers and both residents contracted the virus from an unidentified person in the home.  "Very likely both the residents and both the care workers were infected from someone else within that setting," she said.  Henry said one of the workers also works in two other homes.  "That is part of the ongoing investigation … to find out where else the workers have worked," she said.  Two close contacts of Case 21 have also tested positive — a male teen and man in his 50s. They live in the Fraser Health region and are in home isolation in stable condition. The Lynn Valley Care Centre was identified as a COVID-19 hotspot three days ago. (Ben Nelms/CBC) B.C. confirmed five new coronavirus infections on Monday, bringing the provincial total to 32. Henry said two of those came in from outside the country. One is a female in her 50s who recently returned from Iran. The second is a man in his 30s who travelled from Italy. Both are in isolation at home. Iran and Italy are both struggling with large COVID-19 outbreaks. According to Henry, four people in B.C. who contracted the coronavirus earlier have fully recovered. A woman in her 80s remains in the intensive care unit at Vancouver Hospital in stable condition. WATCH | Henry warns about a new COVID-19 scam: B.C. officials warn of COVID-19 testing scam CBC News BC1 year ago 0:23B.C.'s provincial health officer is warning British Columbians about fraudulent COVID-19 tests being offered for a fee over the phone. 0:23 Henry also warned that fraudsters are trying to sell coronavirus tests over the phone. "A disturbing thing we've been made aware of is that some people are calling and offering fraudulent laboratory testing for a cost. We are telling everybody in B.C., COVID-19 testing is done by our lab which is an accredited lab," she said. "This is all done for free, our turnaround time is very quick and people … should not be paying."  On the weekend, Dix urged British Columbians to avoid travelling on cruise ships, a message that was repeated earlier Monday by Canada's chief public health officer, Dr. Theresa Tam.  "I've asked Canadians to think twice about being on cruise ships. Today, the Public Health Agency of Canada is recommending that Canadians avoid all cruise ship travel due to COVID-19," Tam said. "The risk to the general population remains low, but this could change rapidly. We are most concerned for Canada's vulnerable populations." With files from Rhianna Schmunk CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from British Columbia Man dies after being pepper sprayed, shocked by RCMP at Whistler restaurant High pressure door-to-door furnace sale leaves family steaming over $10K buy-out bill COVID-19 concerns prompt West Vancouver school to close early for spring break Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now