Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal 2nd case of COVID-19 in Quebec confirmed by microbiology lab A second case of coronavirus in Quebec has been confirmed by the National Microbiology Laboratory. Social Sharing Man had recently travelled to India and is now in quarantine in a Montreal hospital CBC News · Posted: Mar 05, 2020 6:48 AM ET | Last Updated: March 5, 2020 Quebec public health officials have announced another case of COVID-19 in the province. The patient had recently returned from a trip abroad, authorities said. (NIAID-RML) A second case of coronavirus in Quebec has been confirmed by the National Microbiology Laboratory. Quebec's public health agency announced the presumptive case of COVID-19 Thursday morning as it was awaiting confirmation from the lab in Winnipeg. The man in question recently returned from a trip to India. He started showing symptoms while in the town of Mont-Laurier, located about 200 kilometres northwest of Montreal in Quebec's Laurentians region. On Wednesday night, he was transferred to Montreal's Jewish General Hospital, one of four facilities in the province set to accommodate patients with the virus. He was admitted and is currently in quarantine at the hospital. Quebec's first case of coronavirus confirmed by National Microbiology Lab Officials say they're working to find more specific information about places the man visited while abroad. The new case comes after a woman, who travelled from Iran to Qatar before arriving at the Montreal airport, was confirmed to have the virus last Friday. Quebec public health said the risk is still considered low in the province. Corrections A previous version of this story identified the patient as being a woman. However, public health has since confirmed the patient is a man. Mar 05, 2020 11:33 AM ET CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories How Montreal's public transit agencies are preparing for COVID-19 Quebec's first COVID-19 patient is on the mend as health authorities retrace her steps Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now