Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto 3 key moments from the 1st Ontario PC leadership debate Tanya Granic Allen ripped Patrick Brown, Doug Ford and Caroline Mulroney suggested pot should be sold on the private market and Christine Elliott was needled on a past vote. Social Sharing Questions on Patrick Brown, marijuana sales and sex ed highlight divides among candidates John Rieti · CBC News · Posted: Feb 15, 2018 10:29 PM ET | Last Updated: February 16, 2018 The four candidates hoping to lead Ontario's PC party into the spring election went head-to-head on Thursday in Toronto. (The Agenda/TVO) Tanya Granic Allen ripped Patrick Brown, Doug Ford and Caroline Mulroney suggested pot should be sold on the private market and Christine Elliott was needled on a past vote.  And this was only the first debate of the Ontario PC leadership race. Here are three of the more heated exchanges between the four candidates during the hour-long debate in Toronto. Tension over Patrick Brown Patrick Brown stepped down as PC leader in the wake of allegations of sexual misconduct. Now, he's trying to clear his name. (Aaron Vincent Elkaim/Canadian Press) Patrick Brown wasn't in the debate, but was the subject of several questions. First, the candidates were asked whether or not they'd allow Brown to run for their party in the wake of the sexual misconduct accusations against him. Both Christine Elliott and Caroline Mulroney said they would allow that if the allegations against him are proven false. "If he can clear his name, then he can run," Mulroney said. RECAP | More highlights and reaction from the first debate Ford said he wants to get the facts and sit down with Brown before making a decision. "I'm not going to litigate this in front of the media," he said. "I'm shocked to hear this," Tanya Granic Allen said after hearing the other responses. She says Brown shouldn't be allowed to run, not because of his alleged misconduct, but due to what she called the corrupt way he handled the party. She said he has "run this party into the ground." TVO's Steve Paikin, who hosted the debate, challenged that, noting the party is leading in the polls and holding a fundraising advantage — indications Brown was doing well. He then asked all four if they believed Brown had been "done in," possibly by forces within the party. New information raises questions about allegations against Patrick Brown Granic Allen responded, "What does it matter?" The other candidates offered neutral answers. Elliott said "I have no idea," while Mulroney only said there are many good people in the PC party. Ford said nothing. Marijuana on the private market? With legal weed arriving in August, the candidates were asked whether they opposed the government's plan to control its sales — as it does with most alcohol. Mulroney and Ford both raised their hands when Paikin asked if there were any "quasi-libertarians" in the group. "Yes, I think that the private sector is better placed to do it," Mulroney said. But, she added, there needs to be more consultation on the matter and she wants to know how the Liberals came to the decision they did. Doug Ford and a group of his supporters arrive for the first Ontario PC leadership debate. Ford says he doesn't think the government should have a monopoly on marijuana sales. (David Donnelly/CBC) Ford called it an "emerging market," before adding "I don't like the government getting involved. I don't like the government having a monopoly on any business." A clash over conversion therapy Granic Allen, the last-minute addition to the debate who is best known for opposing the sex-ed changes, took aim at Elliott in the debate's final moments. After boasting that she doesn't have the same baggage as the other candidates, she asked where they were when Premier Kathleen Wynne was "ramming through crazy policies." She then attacked Elliott for supporting Bill 77, which bans health professionals from providing any treatment aimed at changing a youth's sexual orientation or gender identity — something many called "conversion therapy." The practice is widely discredited and both critics and Ontario's health minister have warned it can harm patients. Granic Allen argued that's not fair to limit the treatment options available to parents who have a "gender confused" child. "That vote that you made overrode parental choice," she told Elliott, the former MPP for Whitby-Oshawa. Elliott replied that "not everybody lives the same kind of life. I respect that." Ontario sex ed curriculum at issue in PC leadership race AnalysisWhy Caroline Mulroney has the most at stake in PC leadership debate ABOUT THE AUTHOR John Rieti John Rieti is the senior producer of digital at CBC Toronto. Born and raised in Newfoundland, John has worked in CBC newsrooms across the country. In Toronto, he's covered everything from the Blue Jays to Toronto city hall. Outside of work, catch him cycling in search of the city's best coffee. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Recap Ontario PC leadership candidates talk sex ed, tax cuts in 1st debate Video Patrick Brown, ex-Ontario PC leader, fires back at sexual misconduct accusers PODCAST The Pollcast: Breaking down the Ontario PC leadership race Analysis Debate proves Tanya Granic Allen will be a factor in Ontario PC leadership race Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now