Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics 4 federal leaders fight to woo Quebec voters in fiery French-language debate Four federal leaders clashed on the environment, the economy and Quebec's place in Canada as they sought to appeal to Quebec voters in the TVA French-language debate on Wednesday night. Social Sharing Leaders go head-to-head on abortion, medically assisted death, secularism and climate Michelle Ghoussoub · CBC News · Posted: Oct 02, 2019 9:02 PM ET | Last Updated: October 3, 2019 From left to right: Bloc Québécois Leader Yves-François Blanchet, Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer, moderator Pierre Bruneau of TVA, Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau and NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh pose for a photo before the French-language debate for the 2019 federal election at TVA studios in Montreal Wednesday. (Joel Lemay/POOL/Agence QMI) comments Four federal leaders clashed on the environment, the economy and Quebec's place in Canada as they sought to appeal to Quebec voters in the TVA French-language debate on Wednesday night. Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau, Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer, NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh and Bloc Québécois Leader Yves-François Blanchet appeared on TVA, one of Quebec's most widely watched networks and reaches a large audience of francophones outside of Montreal. The station is also known for its unique debate format, which features one-on-one exchanges between the leaders that tend to make it particularly confrontational. The debate started off with a fiery exchange between Blanchet and Scheer, who were asked to defend their positions on abortion. Blanchet said that he is unequivocally against opening up the abortion debate and that anyone in his party who had a differing position would be removed. Scheer responded by saying he would always vote to support a woman's right to choose — but the ambiguity in his answer opened the floor to questions from all three leaders about what he, personally, believed. Watch: Justin Trudeau presses Andrew Scheer on his views on abortion Trudeau and Scheer spar on abortion in TVA debate (Courtesy of TVA) Politics1 year ago 0:47Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau presses Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer for his personal views on abortion and a woman's right to choose during the TVA French-language leaders debate Wednesday. 0:47 The three-against-one dynamic continued into the second part of the debate, when Trudeau and Singh faced off on legislation regarding medically assisted dying. Singh said that he felt the current criteria regarding the right to die are too restrictive and Trudeau said his government could be open to adjusting those restrictions. When the floor was opened to all four, Singh asked the leaders to state their positions on a woman's right to choose and medically assisted dying. When Scheer wavered in his answer, Trudeau alluded that there were three leaders being clear in their positions and one not being direct. Environment and economy The leaders also faced tough questions from moderator Pierre Bruneau, who pointedly asked Scheer how he would explain to the 500,000 people who marched in the Montreal climate strike that he plans on being a champion of the oil and gas sector. Scheer argued that the carbon tax "doesn't work" and that Canada's oil and gas industry has very high environmental standards. He struggled to give a clear answer when asked to defend his position on imposing a pipeline on Quebec. AnalysisTonight's TVA debate could shake up the electoral map in Quebec AnalysisFor Trudeau and Scheer, tonight's French debate offers opportunity — and risks Blanchet retorted that Scheer believes "the free market and divine intervention" would solve the climate crisis. Trudeau was also asked how he would respond to Canadians who feel "betrayed" that he purchased the Trans Mountain pipeline. He responded that his government has a better record on the environment than any other government in Canadian history. The leaders also clashed on asylum seekers, drug policy, and Quebec's place in Canada. Trudeau needs to appeal to francophone voters outside of Montreal, a demographic whose support he is counting on to offset potential losses in other regions. Trudeau said he is against Bill 21, and hasn't ruled out intervening. He argued his government is committed to defending minority rights, drawing a comparison to francophones outside of Quebec. Watch: Justin Trudeau, Jagmeet Singh and Yves-François Blanchet spar over Bill 21 Trudeau, Singh, Blanchet spar over Bill 21 (Courtesy TVA) Politics1 year ago 1:43Watch a fiery exchange between Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau, NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh and Bloc Québécois Leader Yves-François Blanchet on Quebec's Bill 21, the provincial law that prohibits teachers, police officers, judges and other provincial employees from wearing religious symbols at work. (Courtesy TVA) i 1:43 Singh went slightly further, calling the bill "discriminatory" and calling on Quebec to not isolate itself. He largely focused his debate efforts on jabbing Scheer, saying a Conservative might cut taxes for some, but would severely slash services. Blanchet makes his mark The debate was especially high-stakes opportunity for Blanchet, a rookie debater, who is hoping the Bloc can make major gains in this election.  On his home turf, he challenged his counterparts to define Quebec's place in Canada, sending the three leaders scrambling to defend their positions in support of Quebec values. When Scheer appealed to Quebecers to vote for Conservatives as the only way to get rid of a Trudeau government, Blanchet asked Scheer if that means he's accomplished nothing in the past four years, just because he didn't form a government in 2015. Watch: Scheer tells Blanchet that Quebecers must elect Conservative MPs to defeat Trudeau Scheer tells Blanchet Quebec must elect Conservatives (Courtesy of TVA) Politics1 year ago 0:52Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer tells BQ Leader Yves-Francois Blanchet only Conservatives can represent Quebec and defeat Trudeau; Blanchet says that means Conservatives have been "useless" for last 4 years, during Wednesday's TVA debate. 0:52 In his closing statement, he appealed for voters in Quebec to "vote for women and men who resemble you" and will defend Quebec. Green Leader Elizabeth May and People's Party Leader Maxime Bernier were not invited to this debate. Scheer calls Trudeau 'hypocrite' for 2 campaign planes Politics1 year ago 1:08Andrew Scheer calls Justin Trudeau a "complete hypocrite" for having two campaign planes, while Trudeau says unlike the Conservatives, his party bought carbon credits for their planes and buses, following Wednesday's TVA debate. 1:08 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Tonight's TVA debate could shake up the electoral map in Quebec Analysis For Trudeau and Scheer, tonight's French debate offers opportunity — and risks Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now