Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics 4 moments from the TVA French-language leaders' debate Four of the major party leaders sparred Wednesday night in a French-language debate that saw Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau try to paint his Conservative opponent as a man out of step with Quebec values. Social Sharing Trudeau tried to paint his Conservative opponent as out of step with Quebec values John Paul Tasker · CBC News · Posted: Oct 03, 2019 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: October 3, 2019 Bloc Québécois Leader Yves-François Blanchet , Conservative Party Leader Andrew Scheer, debate moderator Pierre Bruneau, Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau and NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh posed for a photo at the French-language debate that aired on TVA. (Joel Lemay/Agence QMI) comments Four of the major party leaders sparred Wednesday night in a French-language debate that saw Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau try to paint his Conservative opponent as a man out of step with Quebec values. Bloc Québécois Leader Yves-François Blanchet made an impassioned plea to Quebecers to send more separatist MPs to Ottawa to fight for the province's interests, while Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer urged voters to reject the Bloc's advances and elect Tories to make Trudeau a one-term prime minister. NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh said he'd fight for "asymmetrical" federalism to ensure Quebec's uniqueness is better represented in the federation. He promised to help the province better integrate newcomers into the dominant French culture so as to protect the language's place in Canada. The debate, hosted by TVA, the most watched network in Quebec, was billed as a "face-à-face" — a chance for the leaders to debate one another directly. The topics were wide-ranging and covered everything from the state of Ottawa's finances, climate change, the Quebec secularism law, protections for arts and culture and the place of francophones in Canada. Scheer 'doesn't share our values': Trudeau Trudeau started the night on the offensive, trying to pin Scheer down on issues like same-sex marriage and abortion. He repeatedly asked the Conservative leader to state clearly what his personal feelings are on these social issues. "Answer me this — do you believe women have the right to choose? Yes or no," Trudeau said. Trudeau and Scheer spar on abortion in TVA debate (Courtesy of TVA) Trudeau and Scheer spar on abortion in TVA debate (Courtesy of TVA) Politics1 year ago 0:47Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau presses Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer for his personal views on abortion and a woman's right to choose during the TVA French-language leaders debate Wednesday. 0:47 Scheer didn't answer, but repeated his promise that a Conservative government led by him would not reopen these divisive debates. "You hide with each answer," Trudeau said. "We are seeing that the three of us are aligned with the values of Quebecers and we have a fourth, a Conservative party, that is not aligned with either women's rights or LGBTQ rights." When asked about a Quebec court decision that found parts of both the federal and provincial medically assisted dying laws too restrictive, Trudeau said the current law on medical assistance in dying might be too limited. But he used the moment to hammer Scheer on opposing such a law in the first place. Quebec judge overturns parts of federal, provincial laws on medically assisted dying At a post-debate press conference, Scheer said like many Quebecers, he is Catholic. (The church is opposed to abortion and assisted death on religious grounds.) But the Conservative leader said he will govern for all Canadians and it would be status quo on abortion and same-sex marriage rights. Watch: Scheer post-debate scrum (in English) Scheer dodges question about carbon offsets for Conservative plane Politics News1 year ago 2:10Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer said he'd need "certainty" before appealing Quebec's assisted death ruling and avoids answering why the Conservatives haven't purchased carbon offsets for the party's campaign plane following Wednesday's TVA debate. 2:10 Trudeau said on these issues, but also on the fight against climate change, Scheer doesn't "share our values." As for the Bloc, he said it will always be an opposition party. "We need Quebecers in government to fight climate change," Trudeau said. How do the main parties compare on the issues? Singh was asked about his views on Quebec's secularism law, which he has said he opposes but has also said he would not challenge as prime minister. In answering, Singh attempted to convince Quebecers he shared their values on several issues.  "Well, I said clearly that this law is discriminatory. I am opposed to discriminatory laws. I am in favour of laws that bring people together — we should always try to bring people together," Singh said in French. "Mr. Blanchet wants to dwell on the past and on quarrels, but I am focusing on where people need help." "Quebecers are sensitive to secularism, I understand that reality, it is a very strong tradition. I am in favour of the separation between church and state," Singh continued. "And I am in favour of (choice) in abortion and the right to die with dignity. And I will defend those rights with all my strength." Watch: Singh post-debate scrum (in English) Singh calls Bill-21 'saddening' and talks new NAFTA Politics News1 year ago 2:11While speaking to reporters after the TVA debate, NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh calls Bill-21, Quebec's secularism law, "really saddening." He also discusses what he would have done differently in regards to re-negotiating the new NAFTA agreement. 2:11 Trudeau is a 'hypocrite': Scheer Scheer landed a few punches of his own on Trudeau, saying the Liberal leader is a "fraud" on climate action because his party is the only one that is flying two gas-guzzling airplanes around the country as part of this election campaign. The Liberal Party confirmed it has a second jet, saying it is used to ferry cargo and technical equipment from one destination to the next to give workers enough lead time to set up ahead of campaign events. A spokesperson said the party had the same arrangement in 2015. Conservatives call Trudeau a 'hypocrite' for boasting environmental creds while flying 2 campaign planes The Liberals said they have purchased carbon offset credits to cover greenhouse gas emissions generated from both planes and the campaign's ground transportation. The Conservative party has not. Watch: Scheer calls Trudeau 'hypocrite' for 2 campaign planes Scheer calls Trudeau 'hypocrite' for 2 campaign planes Politics1 year ago 1:08Andrew Scheer calls Justin Trudeau a "complete hypocrite" for having two campaign planes, while Trudeau says unlike the Conservatives, his party bought carbon credits for their planes and buses, following Wednesday's TVA debate. 1:08 In a post-debate scrum, Scheer said the Conservative party will hold Trudeau to account for his "hypocrisy," asking just how many "props" and "costumes" did Trudeau really need, a thinly veiled reference to Trudeau's 2018 India trip and to the recent blackface photos controversy. "It's always the same with this guy. He's always really quick at giving lessons, and lectures and sermons on how everyone else should live their lives and when it comes to his own personal behaviour he's a hypocrite," Scheer said. SNC-Lavalin SNC-Lavalin, the Quebec engineering firm that has been at the centre of political debate in Ottawa for the better part of a year, was invoked a number of times Wednesday night. Blanchet attacked Scheer for his rhetoric during the political scandal and chastised him for not standing up for the company's Quebec workers. The Bloc leader has said thousands of jobs could be lost if the company is convicted on federal corruption charges related to its work in Libya. He said Ottawa should use all the powers at its disposal to protect Quebec companies and to keep the headquarters of major firms in the province. Scheer said Trudeau — who was found by the ethics commissioner to have inappropriately pressured former justice minister Jody Wilson-Raybould to sign a deferred prosecution agreement with SNC Lavalin — has undermined the independence of the country's judicial system. An economic reality check on SNC-Lavalin: Are 9,000 jobs really at stake? Trudeau defended his actions, saying he was only interested in protecting jobs in the province. Scheer said there is no evidence that any jobs would actually be lost if the company is eventually convicted. The NDP leader rejected the jobs defence, saying Trudeau's handling of the SNC-Lavalin affair shows the Liberal party is beholden to corporate interests and the lobbyists that represent them. In his closing remarks, Singh again tried to paint Trudeau as someone more attuned to the demands of the country's elite rather than the workers he claims to represent. Singh said Trudeau "has surfed on his privilege all his life," whereas he, the son of working class immigrant parents, is "a fighter, a real progressive." Bloc fights for relevance Blanchet, a native Quebecer, and the leader with the best command of the French language, asked Quebecers to elect more MPs "who resemble you. Who share your values. And who work for your interests, and only for the interests of Quebecers." Blanchet said the best way to ensure Quebec's voice is heard within Canada is to send more Bloc MPs to Ottawa, adding they would pressure the government of the day to send more shipbuilding work to Quebec's Davie yard. He also said he'd force Ottawa to move to one tax return for Quebecers. Unlike other Canadians, Quebecers must file with both the province's tax collector and the Canada Revenue Agency. He also said he wants to ensure the federal government doesn't intervene in a legal fight to end Quebec's secularism law, which forces public servants to remove religious garb while on the job.  "I am going to Ottawa to defend the right of Quebec to function in its own way," Blanchet said. "I don't want to send people to Ottawa who want to undo what we are doing in Quebec." Scheer tells Blanchet Quebec must elect Conservatives (Courtesy of TVA) Scheer tells Blanchet Quebec must elect Conservatives (Courtesy of TVA) Politics1 year ago 0:52Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer tells BQ Leader Yves-Francois Blanchet only Conservatives can represent Quebec and defeat Trudeau; Blanchet says that means Conservatives have been "useless" for last 4 years, during Wednesday's TVA debate. 0:52 When Scheer said it was the Conservative Party that finally recognized Quebec as a "nation within a united Canada," gave the province its own seat at United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and corrected a lingering fiscal imbalance, Blanchet said the Tories acted on these issues only after facing pressure from the Bloc. Scheer spent much of the debate questioning the value of Bloc MPs. He said, because they will never be able to form a government, a vote for the Bloc is a wasted vote because it will do nothing to get Trudeau out of office. The Bloc has a lot of demands, "but it's only us who can deliver them," Scheer said. Watch: Blanchet post-debate scrum (in English) Blanchet on Quebec voters and support for Bill 21 Politics News1 year ago 1:53Bloc Québécois Leader Yves-François Blanchet discusses support for Bill 21, which party leader would best represent the province's interests and argues that his party is the only choice for Quebec voters following Wednesday's TVA debate. 1:53 The debate moderator, Pierre Bruneau, asked Blanchet to say how many laws Bloc MPs have passed over the last three decades. Knowing the answer is zero, Blanchet said Bloc MPs have served other functions. Trudeau said Quebecers are better represented when they have a seat at the table of government. Watch: Trudeau post-debate scrum (in English) Trudeau faces media questions after French debate Politics News1 year ago 2:14Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau is questioned about medically assisted dying, decriminalizing drugs beyond marijuana and using two election campaign planes following Wednesday's TVA debate. 2:14 Clarifications An earlier version of this story stated that Justin Trudeau was alleged to have inappropriately pressured former justice minister Jody Wilson-Raybould to sign a deferred prosecution agreement with SNC-Lavalin. The story has been updated to reflect that Trudeau was found by the ethics commissioner to have inappropriately pressured Wilson-Raybould. Oct 03, 2019 11:26 AM ET ABOUT THE AUTHOR John Paul Tasker Parliamentary Bureau John Paul (J.P.) Tasker is a reporter in the CBC's Parliamentary bureau in Ottawa. He can be reached at john.tasker@cbc.ca. Follow J.P. on Twitter CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories PARTY PLATFORMS Compare platforms on top election issues BATTLEGROUND RIDINGS The 60 ridings where the federal election will be won and lost POLL TRACKER Liberals lead over Conservatives in national polls Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now