Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia 5th presumptive case of coronavirus found in B.C. B.C. has a fifth, presumptive case of the coronavirus, according to provincial health officer Dr. Bonnie Henry.  Social Sharing Woman in her 30s was visiting China, now in stable condition at home, official says Chad Pawson · CBC News · Posted: Feb 14, 2020 12:22 PM PT | Last Updated: February 15, 2020 B.C. Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry announces the province's fifth presumptive case of coronavirus on Friday. (CBC) comments B.C. has a fifth, presumptive case of the coronavirus, according to provincial health officer Dr. Bonnie Henry.  The new patient is a woman in her 30s who lives in B.C.'s Interior. She recently travelled to China. Henry said Friday the woman returned from China through Shanghai this past week and had not been in an area with travel bans, such as Hubei province. She flew through Vancouver and drove in a private vehicle back to the Interior. Henry says she began experiencing symptoms upon her arrival and immediately isolated herself at home. Vancouver Coastal Health and Interior Health are conducting investigations into the small group of people with whom she had contact.  Officials are still determining if people on the same flights as the patient need to be contacted, said Henry. She said the woman wore a mask while in transit.  Henry says the woman reached out to health officials in the Interior about her illness and was placed in isolation in hospital. The B.C. Centre for Disease Control (BCCDC) said a test for the virus came back positive Thursday afternoon. That test must be confirmed by the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg. The patient is in stable condition, and is now in isolation at home, said Henry. Those who are known to have come into contact with her are also in isolation at home. "So once again we're very thankful and grateful that the people who are coming back not just from Hubei province but all over China are taking the advice very seriously to self-monitor and to connect with us and make sure that they can be tested, assessed and cared for safely," Henry said. There are four other confirmed cases of the virus in the province, according to the BCCDC, and three in Ontario, according to the Public Health Agency of Canada.  Health Minister Adrian Dix said Friday B.C. has done the most testing of any jurisdiction in Canada. As of this week, the BCCDC has conducted more than 715 tests for the coronavirus on about 500 people. WATCH | Dix explains why he's impressed with B.C.'s response: Health Minister Adrian Dix responds to B.C.'s 5th coronavirus case CBC News BC1 year ago 0:38Dix says B.C. has done more testing for coronavirus than any other jurisdiction in Canada. 0:38 1st case recovering Henry says the man with the first confirmed case in the province is recovering.  "So that's a good sign," she said. A recent test said he is free of the illness. A second test confirming that will allow him out of isolation. "So we fully expect that to happen soon," Henry said.  All of the people in B.C. who have contracted the virus are in stable condition, Henry said. Anyone with concerns about their illness or who want to be assessed for coronavirus risk can call 811. More than 1,700 Chinese health workers infected while fighting coronavirus outbreak China's National Health Commission has reported 5,090 new coronavirus cases on the mainland, for a total of 63,851. There have been 121 new deaths, bringing the death toll in mainland China to 1,380. Chinese officials say 1,716 health-care workers have been infected, and six have died. Public health officials say the risk is low in Canada. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from British Columbia Video Victoria protesters remain peaceful after pledging to shut down B.C. government offices Driving instructor's car impounded for letting a drunk student get behind the wheel Video Meet the author whose mother's vanity saved her from death at Auschwitz Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now