Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto 5th COVID-19 case in Ontario, a woman who was recently in Iran A fifth case of COVID-19 has been reported in Ontario, provincial health officials said Wednesday. Social Sharing Woman returned to Toronto on Feb. 15, went to hospital on Feb. 24 CBC News · Posted: Feb 26, 2020 7:21 AM ET | Last Updated: February 26, 2020 The Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV), which was identified as the cause of an outbreak of respiratory illness first detected in Wuhan, China, has been spreading around the world. (Alissa Eckert, MS; Dan Higgins, MAM/CDC/) comments A fifth case of COVID-19 has been reported in Ontario and is awaiting confirmation via testing at the National Microbiology Lab in Winnipeg, provincial health officials said Wednesday. The woman in her 60s went to the emergency department at Toronto's Sunnybrook Hospital on Monday, said Dr. Eileen de Villa, the city's chief medical officer, at a morning news conference. She had recently travelled to Iran and became ill after she returned to Canada on Feb. 15, de Villa said. The woman had a cough, sore throat, body aches and an occasional fever. She was isolated as hospital staff tested for the novel coronavirus before she was discharged. She is now at home in self-isolation, de Villa said.  WHO reluctant to declare COVID-19 pandemic as coronavirus spreads to more countries Canada prepares pandemic response plan as coronavirus cases continue to climb Health officials are monitoring the situation and following up with the woman's close contacts, she added, and a sample has been sent to the lab in Winnipeg for further testing. It's too early to say whether authorities will try to contact other passengers on her flight to Toronto, de Villa said, as a risk assessment of her movements since returning to Canada is still underway. The case is the first in Ontario involving a person with no history of travel to China. A woman in her 20s who had also travelled to Iran recently tested positive for coronavirus in B.C., but de Villa said the two cases are not connected. Watch The National's documentary on the spread of coronavirus: Will coronavirus become a pandemic? The National1 year ago 11:37A group of infectious disease specialists unpack why the coronavirus is causing renewed alarm around the world and what travellers should know. 11:37 This is the 12th case of COVID-19 in Canada, but the risk of contracting the virus in the country is still low, said Dr. David Williams, Ontario's chief medical officer, at the news conference. He added Canadian authorities are working to contain the coronavirus where it shows up, but are ready to respond if it spreads. "We have been preparing since day one," Williams said. "We ramp up and we ramp down, we don't just turn it on and off." Ontario has identified four previous cases in the province. While three of them have since been cleared, another new case was diagnosed in Toronto last weekend. Officials said that patient, a woman in her 20s, had recently returned from China and is considered to have a mild case of the illness. Meanwhile, seven cases have been identified in British Columbia. The virus has infected 80,000 globally and recently spread to Iran, where there have been 139 confirmed cases and 19 deaths, according to state television. Watch an infection control specialist who says WHO is dragging its feet on calling COVID-19 a pandemic: Infection control specialist says WHO is dragging its feet on calling COVID-19 a pandemic World1 year ago 9:30Dr. Michael Gardam of Toronto's Humber River Hospital says we all need to get ready for the virus gaining a foothold in Canada. 9:30   With files from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories WHO reluctant to declare COVID-19 pandemic as coronavirus spreads to more countries Canada prepares pandemic response plan as coronavirus cases continue to climb Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now