Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World 6 things you need to know about the Iran nuclear deal Iran and six Western countries have agreed to a deal limiting Iran's nuclear program and ending severe economic sanctions. Here are six things you need to know about the pact. Social Sharing Iran can rejoin the world's economy as sanctions ease CBC News · Posted: Jul 14, 2015 9:21 AM ET | Last Updated: July 14, 2015 Obama statement highlights on Iran deal News6 years ago 2:55Excerpts from speech to media Tuesday morning 2:55 comments Iran and six Western countries have agreed to a deal limiting Iran's nuclear program and ending severe economic sanctions. Here are six things you need to know about the deal: 1. Iran can buy and sell again The U.S. and the European Union have agreed to end a variety of punitive sanctions against Iran. That will mean Iranian oil exports to the West can resume, leading to expectations that world oil prices will remain lower. That's good for world economies in general, but not for oil producers like Canada. Read the text of the Iran agreement here PHOTOS: Headlines from around the world on the Iran nuclear deal Read more of CBC's coverage on the Iran nuclear deal Iran can open bank branches in EU countries and resume trading with the EU. Similarly, U.S. companies will be free to do business with Iranian banks. They can also resume selling passenger aircraft to Iran. 2. No nukes, they promise In return, Iran agrees to cut its enriched uranium stockpile by 98 per cent and to remove two-thirds of its centrifuges (devices that can enrich uranium to the point it can be used to make nuclear weapons). 3. Peaceful reactor allowed Iran will be allowed to redesign and rebuild a heavy-water research reactor to be used only for peaceful purposes. Critics have said the country can't be trusted not to cheat. The U.S. says there will be verification checks. 4. Israel thinks it's crazy Israel has been implacably and unrelentingly opposed to any pact with its Iranian neighbour — and remains so. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says Israel will itself continue to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Defence Minister Moshe Yaalon told the New York Times: "Obviously we are going to have to continue to prepare to defend ourselves by ourselves." ANALYSIS | How an Iran deal could reshape Middle East ANALYSIS | Iranians upbeat: deal could ease sanctions Beyond the headlines, what life is really like in Iran The Israelis say ending sanctions will only allow Iran to finance more state-sponsored extremism aimed largely at them. Criticism of the deal crosses political lines, the Times reports, though there are differences about how Israel should respond. 5. Obama can veto opposition In the United States, Congress has already voted itself a 60-day review period on any nuclear deal with Iran. President Barack Obama must put all concessions on hold until that is over. He said Tuesday, however, that he would veto any attempt by Congress to scupper the agreement. 6. How it all began The Iran nuclear deal dates back to August 2002, when Western intelligence services and an Iranian opposition group discovered the country was producing enriched uranium at a secret site in the eastern city of Natanz that could lead to material suitable for weapons. The United Nations imposed the first sanctions against Iran in 2006, banning the sale of sensitive nuclear technology. Five more Security Council resolutions were passed by 2010, tightening the sanctions on Iran. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, left, and British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond leave the final press conference of Iran nuclear talks at Austria International Centre in Vienna, Austria on Tuesday. (AFP/Getty) With files from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Photos Iran nuclear deal: headlines from around the world Iran nuclear talks: What you need to know Iran says nuclear deal could lead to co-operation in fight against extremism Read more CBC coverage on the Iran nuclear deal External Links Text of the Iran agreement Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now