Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia 8 more cases of COVID-19 identified in B.C., including 1 of unknown origin British Columbia has identified eight more presumptive cases of the novel coronavirus, including one involving a woman who has no recent travel history. Social Sharing This is B.C.'s first apparent case of coronavirus spread in the community Bethany Lindsay · CBC News · Posted: Mar 05, 2020 2:40 PM PT | Last Updated: March 6, 2020 Provincial health officer Dr. Bonnie Henry answers questions from at a media briefing about eight new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, March 5, 2020 in Victoria. (Michael McArthur/CBC) comments British Columbia has identified eight more presumptive cases of the novel coronavirus, including one involving a woman who has no recent travel history. This is B.C.'s first apparent case of the COVID-19 virus spreading in the community. The woman, who is in her 50s and lives in the Fraser Health region, has not had contact with other coronavirus patients or people returning from disease hot spots. She tested positive for COVID-19 after visiting her doctor with what she assumed was influenza. Provincial health officer Dr. Bonnie Henry said officials have launched a detailed investigation into how the patient was infected — a process she described as "disease detective work." "There's likely at least one other person out there who has this disease or had this disease, and we need to find them," she told reporters at a press conference Thursday. Four of the new cases were identified in the same household as another patient in the Fraser Health region who was identified last week, Henry said. They were already being monitored for symptoms and are living in isolation. 'Things are moving quickly' Another two patients are a couple in their 50s and 60s have recently returned from travel to Iran, and the final new patient is a resident of Seattle who is visiting family in the Fraser Health region. Henry confirmed that one of the cases is linked to University Canada West in Vancouver, which closed its campuses on Wednesday for three days of disinfection. COVID-19 precautions close Vancouver business school for 3-day disinfection There have now been 21 positive tests for the coronavirus in B.C., including 13 linked to the outbreak in Iran. At least four patients have recovered completely. Only one patient has required treatment in hospital — a woman in her 80s who is in critical condition in the intensive care unit at Vancouver General Hospital. Henry said that travelling internationally has become risky as the virus continues to spread around the globe. "We are seeing that things are moving very quickly and things can open up very suddenly," she said. "This is one of those years where I would shift my thinking to staying at home." People who have recently returned from travel in Iran and China have been asked to self-isolate for 14 days on their return to B.C. Here is what you need to know if you live in B.C. and want to be tested for COVID-19 LISTENU.S. scrambles to contain COVID-19, and it's a problem for everyone Henry said that implementing screening at the land border with Washington state would be of "limited effectiveness," but officials are closely monitoring the outbreak there, which has led to 10 deaths so far. B.C. officials are reminding anyone who feels unwell to stay home from work or school and to call 811 or their health practitioner if they have symptoms of coronavirus such as a fever or cough. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Top stories from British Columbia WHO chief on COVID-19: 'This is a time for pulling out all the stops' B.C.'s 13th coronavirus patient in critical condition, officials announce Here is what you need to know if you live in B.C. and want to be tested for COVID-19 Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now