Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Calgary Aecon Group wins two regulator approvals for $1.5B sale to Chinese buyer Construction company Aecon Group Inc. says it has received two regulatory permissions needed for it to be sold to a Chinese state-owned company for $1.5 billion. Social Sharing Calgary-based construction firm built Canadian landmarks like Toronto's CN Tower and Vancouver's SkyTrain The Canadian Press · Posted: Dec 08, 2017 3:25 PM MT | Last Updated: December 8, 2017 Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said the deal will be reviewed 'very carefully' under the Canada Investment Act. (Left: Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press; Right: Arnulfo Franco/Associated Press) Construction company Aecon Group Inc. says it has received two regulatory permissions needed for it to be sold to a Chinese state-owned company for $1.5 billion. The deal with CCCC International Holding Ltd., however, still faces a review under the Investment Canada Act. Chinese bid for Aecon construction comes with warnings for Trudeau Liberals Aecon says it has received a "no action" letter granting approval under the Canadian Competition Act and it has been advised by the buyer that it has approval from the National Development and Reform Commission, a Chinese economic planning regulator. It says both approvals were required for closing of the deal announced in October. Shareholders in the 140-year-old firm, which has worked on Canadian landmarks including the CN Tower, Vancouver's SkyTrain and the Halifax Shipyard, are to vote on the sale in Toronto on Dec. 19. Chinese construction firm CCCI to buy Canada's Aecon for $1.5B No need for national security review of Aecon takeover, China's ambassador says CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Chinese bid for Aecon construction comes with warnings for Trudeau Liberals Chinese construction firm CCCI to buy Canada's Aecon for $1.5B No need for national security review of Aecon takeover, China's ambassador says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now