Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Business Aecon shareholders approve takeover by Chinese firm Aecon shareholders voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to approve a $1.5-billion takeover of the Canadian company by a Chinese firm. Social Sharing CCCC International Holding Ltd. paying $20.37 a share for Aecon The Canadian Press · Posted: Dec 19, 2017 12:00 PM ET | Last Updated: December 19, 2017 An Aecon Construction scissor lift operator looks at Toronto Pearson International Airport's Terminal 1 check-in area in this Dec. 2003 file photo. Aecon shareholders have approved the sale of the company to a Chinese firm. (Tobin Grimshaw, AP/Canadian Press) Aecon shareholders voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to approve a $1.5-billion takeover of the Canadian company by a Chinese firm. CCCC International Holding Ltd., a subsidiary of China Communications Construction Company Ltd., announced a friendly deal in October to buy the company for $20.37 per share in cash. "It's a bitter sweet moment for me personally," Aecon chief executive John Beck told the meeting with roughly 50 people present. "But it's definitely the right thing for everyone involved with the company." Aecon had said in August that it was looking for potential buyers. Aecon Group wins two regulator approvals for $1.5B sale to Chinese buyer Chinese bid for Aecon construction comes with warnings for Trudeau Liberals The company's board unanimously recommended shareholders support the bid and more than 99 per cent of the votes cast were in favour of the offer, which required the approval of a two-thirds majority. Roughly 33.85 million votes were cast in favour, while more than 204,000 votes were against the deal — marking a 57.8 per cent participation rate by shareholders eligible to vote. The deal has already received a "no action" letter granting approval under the Canadian Competition Act and Aecon has been advised by the buyer that it has approval from the National Development and Reform Commission, a Chinese economic planning regulator. It still faces a review under the Investment Canada Act. Aecon chairman Brian Tobin said "there's a clear net benefit for Canada" from the deal. "Our hope and expectation is that the full approvals will be forthcoming," he said in an interview after the meeting. "But we respect that there is an appropriate process that is undertaken by government and we are patiently awaiting the conclusion of that review." The 140-year-old construction firm has worked on Canadian landmarks including the CN Tower, Vancouver's SkyTrain and the Halifax Shipyard. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Aecon Group wins two regulator approvals for $1.5B sale to Chinese buyer Chinese bid for Aecon construction comes with warnings for Trudeau Liberals Chinese construction firm CCCI to buy Canada's Aecon for $1.5B Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now