Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sudbury Allegations against Brown 'disturbing' MPP Fedeli says Progressive Conservative MPPs are starting to issue statements about the resignation of their leader. Social Sharing Patrick Brown resigned early Thursday after allegations of sexual misconduct CBC News · Posted: Jan 25, 2018 10:34 AM ET | Last Updated: January 25, 2018 Nipissing MPP Vic Fedeli calls the allegations against Patrick Brown "disturbing." (Michelle Siu/The Canadian Press) Progressive Conservative MPPs are starting to issue statements about the resignation of their leader. Early Thursday morning, Progressive Conservative leader Patrick Brown resigned after allegations of sexual misconduct. Hours earlier, he publicly denied the allegations at a news conference. Sexual advances by Patrick Brown left woman feeling 'anxious,' she tells CBC News Ontario PC Leader Patrick Brown denies sexual misconduct allegations The news conference on Wednesday night came just ahead of a CTV News report detailing allegations by two women dating back to when Brown was a federal MP. CBC News has not independently confirmed the allegations. Nipissing MPP Vic Fedeli issued a statement, calling the allegations against Brown "disturbing." He says the Ontario PC Caucus agreed with Brown's announcement to step down. "Mr. Brown is entitled to a legal defense and due process," he said. "But he [could not have led] us into an election." Fedeli goes on to say the party caucus upholds the principle that "a safe and respectful society is what we expect and deserve." "We need to move forward to eradicate sexual violence and harassment across the province," he said. "Our caucus will immediately consult with party officials and members on the best way to move forward to defeat the Wynne government in the 2018 election." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Sexual advances by Patrick Brown left woman feeling 'anxious,' she tells CBC News Ontario PC Leader Patrick Brown denies sexual misconduct allegations Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now