Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Almost 6,000 more coronavirus cases reported in China Health authorities reported 116 new deaths from coronavirus in China's Hubei province on Thursday — less than half the number reported the previous day. Social Sharing Outside China, largest concentration of confirmed cases is among Diamond Princess passengers Thomson Reuters · Posted: Feb 13, 2020 6:10 AM ET | Last Updated: February 14, 2020 A doctor disinfects a room for medical staff with sanitizing equipment at a community health service centre in the Qingshan district of Wuhan, capital of the hard-hit Hubei province, earlier this week. (China Daily/Reuters) comments The latest:  Coronavirus case numbers rise by almost 6,000 in China, mostly in Hubei. Number of deaths reported Thursday less than half those reported the day before. WHO cautions that case numbers reflect change in method of diagnosis and reporting. Princess Cruises says Japan to proceed with 'phased' process allowing passengers to leave ship, complete quarantine on land.  12 Canadians among the Diamond Princess passengers who tested positive, foreign minister says. Japan confirms 1st death linked to coronavirus. Passengers aboard the Westerdam, including about 250 Canadians, disembark in Philippines after testing negative for coronavirus infections. Risk in Canada still low, public health officials say. WATCH: What we actually know about the coronavirus The death toll from a coronavirus outbreak in China's Hubei province rose by 116 by the end of Thursday, health officials there said, less than half the number of deaths from the day before. Hubei province's health commission said it had also recorded 4,823 new cases of the disease, recently named COVID-19, taking the total in the province to 51,986. Over four fifths of the province's new cases were in Wuhan, where the new coronavirus first emerged in December, The number of newly reported infections was down sharply from the end of Wednesday, when a change in the methods of diagnosing and reporting patients had led to a record number of reported cases.  Hubei authorities had started using a new, quicker diagnostic method involving computerized tomography (CT) scans, which health authorities said had diagnosed more than 13,000 infections in one day, without waiting for lab confirmation.   A medical staff member collects samples from a Chinese paramilitary police officer as he returns from holidays in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, on Tuesday. (AFP/Getty Images) They had previously only allowed infections to be confirmed by RNA tests, which can take days to process. RNA, or ribonucleic acid, carries genetic information allowing for identification of organisms like viruses. The diagnostic change is just in Hubei, World Health Organization officials said on Thursday. In a news briefing on Thursday morning in Geneva, WHO emphasized that the large increase in cases did not necessarily indicate a spike in new infections.    "Crucially, we understand that most of these cases relate to a period going back over days and weeks and are retrospectively reported as cases, sometimes back to the beginning of the outbreak itself," said Dr. Mike Ryan, executive director of WHO's health emergencies program, said at the briefing.   The increase on Thursday was "largely, in part, down to a change in how cases are being diagnosed and reported," he said.  "This does not represent a significant change in the trajectory of the outbreak." Daily press conference on <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/COVID19?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#COVID19</a> with <a href="https://twitter.com/DrMikeRyan?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@DrMikeRyan</a>. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/coronavirus?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#coronavirus</a> <a href="https://t.co/nJ2o3ilsTY">https://t.co/nJ2o3ilsTY</a>&mdash;@WHO The majority of China's new cases continue to be in Hubei. Across the mainland, there were 121 new deaths and a total of 5,090 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, China's National Health Commission reported. The total number of cases to date on the mainland is more than 55,000.   Allowing trained medical professionals in Hubei to confirm coronavirus cases on the basis of CT imaging rather than waiting for laboratory confirmation allowed patients to get care more quickly and expedite public health measures such as tracking down others who may have been exposed to the virus, Ryan said.  Ryan said in the rest of China — and the rest of the world — lab confirmation is still necessary. What you need to know now about the coronavirus: New method of diagnosing illness Who's the Canadian leading WHO's coronavirus investigation in China? "For consistency," WHO's Thursday coronavirus report said, it was not including the cases that were not lab-confirmed in its own daily tally.  There have been 447 coronavirus cases in 24 countries outside of China, WHO said.  The epidemic, believed to have emerged from a Wuhan market where wildlife was traded illegally, has given China's ruling Communist Party one of its sternest challenges in years, constrained the world's second-largest economy and triggered a purge of provincial bureaucrats. Provincial Communist Party boss Jiang Chaoliang was fired as secretary of the Hubei Provincial Committee, and Shanghai's former mayor Ying Yong has been appointed to replace him, state media said. It also reported that Ma Guoqiang was removed as the party's chief in Wuhan. Diamond Princess passengers may be allowed off ship As of Thursday, there have been 447 coronavirus cases in 24 countries outside of China, WHO said. Seven of those are in Canada — four in British Columbia and three in Ontario, according to the Public Health Agency of Canada.   The biggest concentration of confirmed cases outside of mainland China, according to WHO, is from the Diamond Princess cruise ship, docked near Tokyo, where 3,500 passengers have been under quarantine since last week As of Thursday, 218 passengers had tested positive for the coronavirus, including 12 Canadians, WHO said.  "Outside cases on the Diamond Princess cruise ship, we are not seeing dramatic increases in cases outside China," Ryan said.   In this image from a video, Paul Molesky, left, gets a DNA swab test as part of coronavirus screening in his cabin room on the Diamond Princess, anchored at a port in Yokohama, near Tokyo. The cruise line has announced that passengers may soon be allowed to complete their quarantine period on land. (Cheryl and Paul Molesky via The Associated Press) The 12 Canadians who contracted the virus on board the ship have been moved to Japanese health facilities, and at least three have required hospitalization, Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister François-Philippe Champagne told reporters while travelling with the prime minister in Senegal on a diplomatic trip. Champagne said emergency response teams and consular officials are in Japan to make sure Canadians are receiving the help they need. "We know that there are some people who need medications on board, they want to have contact with their families. We're facilitating that," Champagne said. Canada has also dispatched health officials to Japan to co-ordinate with local public health authorities. WATCH: Canada's foreign minister on coronavirus cases in Japan Champagne on the latest coronavirus numbers Politics1 year ago 0:44Foreign Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne updates numbers of Canadians infected by the coronavirus on the cruise ship in Japan. 0:44 Japanese authorities might soon allow passengers who have not tested positive for the virus but remain quarantined aboard the ship to disembark and finish out their isolation on land. Japan plans to move passengers who wish to leave the ship in phases, with the most "medically vulnerable" guests being moved in the first phase, according to Princess Cruises, the line that owns the Diamond Princess. That first group of people will be tested for the virus, and if they test negative, will be taken to a quarantine housing facility, the cruise line said in a press release. If they test positive, they'll be moved to a health facility. CBC IN BEIJING'A whole country locked inside': China struggles with coronavirus, and a new normal The shore-side quarantine centre will include individual rooms with private bathrooms, and while passengers will continue to receive their medical prescriptions, they will not have access to specialized or Western meals. They will be served Japanese bento boxes for the duration of the quarantine, according to the release. Everyone who wishes to stay on the ship will be allowed to do so. Westerdam passengers reach port Meanwhile, passengers were finally allowed to leave another ship, the Westerdam, after it docked in the Cambodian port town of Sihanoukville. Thailand refused to allow the Westerdam to dock this week after it had already been turned away by the Philippines, Taiwan, Japan and Guam over coronavirus concerns.  Passengers leave the Westerdam, a cruise ship that spent two weeks at sea after being turned away by five countries over fears that someone aboard might have the coronavirus, as it docks in Sihanoukville, Cambodia. (Stringer/Reuters) No cases of the illness had been confirmed among its 1,455 passengers and 802 crew members, according to its operator, Holland America. The ship had anchored offshore to allow Cambodian officials to board and collect samples from passengers with any signs of ill health or flu-like symptoms. Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen greeted the passengers with handshakes and bouquets of roses as they stepped off the ship and boarded a waiting bus. Champagne said there were about 250 Canadian passengers on the Westerdam and that they will be returned to Canada at Holland America's expense.  About 400 Canadians quarantined in Trenton As for Canadians still in the centre of the viral outbreak, Champagne said all the 400 or so Canadians who wished to leave Hubei, the Chinese province that includes the city of Wuhan, have been repatriated and are quarantined in southern Ontario, at Canadian Forces Base Trenton. VideoBusting garlic cures and other false coronavirus claims Why doctors find fighting the coronavirus so challenging There are still permanent Canadian residents in Hubei, he said. Though Chinese authorities initially stipulated that only Canadian passport holders would be able to leave the quarantined region, they seem to have relaxed that rule, Champagne said, but he did not elaborate on whether Canada would make arrangements to fly more of them out. The last flight chartered by the Canadian government to evacuate people from the city of Wuhan, which landed at CFB Trenton on Tuesday, was the last the government plans to send to the region. Those Canadians who chose to stay behind in Hubei have been provided with consular services, Champagne said. 1st death linked to coronavirus reported in Japan On Thursday, Japan confirmed its first coronavirus death — an 80-year-old woman who lived in an area that borders on Tokyo, health officials said. More artists postpone or cancel China dates over coronavirus, with insurance coverage in doubt Health Minister Katsunobu Kato says the woman had been treated at a hospital near Tokyo since early February after developing symptoms. Her infection was confirmed after her death.  CDC says U.S. has another case In the U.S., the Centers for Disease Control confirmed another coronavirus case — the 15th case of COVID-19 in the country. "The patient is among a group of people under a federal quarantine order at JBSA-Lackland in Texas because of their recent return to the U.S. on a State Department-chartered flight," the CDC said in a statement. The person who tested positive is in isolation at hospital. WATCH: Infectious disease doctor takes your questions about the coronavirus outbreak Infectious disease doctor answers your questions about coronavirus World1 year ago 8:47Dr. Michael Gardam, who was on the front lines during the SARS crisis, answers pressing questions about the coronavirus outbreak.  8:47 The CDC said 195 people were released from quarantine on Tuesday, but noted there are more than 600 people who returned to the U.S. on charter flights who are still living under federal quarantine. In Vietnam, official media reported that a commune of 10,000 residents northwest of the capital Hanoi was put in lockdown due to a cluster of cases there. The online newspaper VN Express cited a senior official of Ving Phuc province as reporting an increase in cases in Son Loi commune. Vietnam has confirmed 16 cases of the disease, most of them in Son Loi.  With files from CBC News, The Canadian Press and The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories What you need to know now about the coronavirus: New method of diagnosing illness More artists postpone or cancel China dates over coronavirus, with insurance coverage in doubt Video Busting garlic cures and other false coronavirus claims Fighting coronavirus fears in Japan is an Olympian task China reports record surge in daily coronavirus deaths Who's the Canadian leading WHO's coronavirus investigation in China? Video Can coronavirus be spread by people with no symptoms? CBC IN BEIJING 'A whole country locked inside': China struggles with coronavirus, and a new normal Why doctors find fighting the coronavirus so challenging Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now