Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal Are you there, God? It's me, François Legault On the second day of hearings into Quebec's controversial secularism bill, Premier François Legault mused about the existence of God. Social Sharing At hearings into Quebec's secularism bill, politicians asked to reflect on one of life's biggest questions CBC News · Posted: May 08, 2019 2:03 PM ET | Last Updated: May 8, 2019 Quebec Premier François Legault was asked about God on the second of the hearings into his government's proposed secularism law. (Jacques Boissinot/Canadian Press) comments Quebec Premier François Legault is hopeful God exists, but he can't know for certain. "I hope there is a God, otherwise I think that if not, life would be unfair to those who live in misery, who die young," he said Wednesday, adding that he was baptized Catholic but is non-practising. "I hope that God exists, but I do not have confirmation." The premier made the pronouncement in response to a reporter's question before the second day of hearings into Quebec's contentious secularism legislation, Bill 21. Legault said there are "two competing theories" — that God exists or that everything is random, but it's an "incredible" kind of randomness that includes the Big Bang and the origins of life. Other politicians were asked for their own thoughts on God, given the heated debate around whether some public servants should be banned from wearing religious symbols.  If made law, Bill 21 would prohibit workers in positions of authority, including public teachers, from wearing a kippa, hijab or turban. Quebec lawmakers told secularism bill will institutionalize discrimination, stoke Islamophobia Sol Zanetti, a Québec Solidaire MNA, said he doesn't believe in God, but that the question wasn't relevant to the debate. "It's not a scandal, you know. It has no impact," he said. "We are in a secular state, and people know that politicians don't take their decisions based on religious values. The Quebec political system is already secular, so we don't need to go further." He said the Charter of Rights and Freedoms protects individual rights by enshrining "the freedom to believe and the freedom not to believe." For their part, Liberal MNA Hélène David and PQ Leader Pascal Bérubé refused to weigh in on the existence of a supreme being. Bérubé said a politician's "personal convictions should never take precedence over legislation." The hearings continue Wednesday afternoon in Quebec City. François Legault offers his thoughts on the existence of God 'Do you believe in God, Mr. Legault?' CBC News Montreal2 years ago 0:25Quebec Premier François Legault was asked about his faith in God Wednesday as hearings on his government's secularism bill continue. 0:25 With files from Cathy Senay CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories At Quebec secularism bill hearings, government challenged to say why trampling religious rights is necessary Quebec lawmakers told secularism bill will institutionalize discrimination, stoke Islamophobia Hearings on Quebec's secularism bill have little time for religious groups, critics say Here are the jobs subject to Quebec's proposed religious symbols ban (the list is longer than you'd think) CBC Explains What's in Quebec's secularism bill: Religious symbols, uncovered faces and a charter workaround Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now