Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Health Authorities say mysterious respiratory illness in China not SARS The mysterious respiratory illness that has infected dozens of people in a central Chinese city is not SARS, local authorities said Sunday. Social Sharing As of Sunday, 59 have been diagnosed with the condition The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 05, 2020 2:49 PM ET | Last Updated: January 5, 2020 Local authorities said Sunday that a mysterious respiratory illness that has infected dozens of people in the central Chinese city of Wuhan is not SARS (Chance Chan/Reuters) The mysterious respiratory illness that has infected dozens of people in a central Chinese city is not SARS, local authorities said Sunday. The 2002-2003 epidemic of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere. SARS claimed 44 lives in Canada, with people working in healthcare particularly vulnerable.  Fears of a SARS recurrence arose this month after a slate of patients were hospitalized with an unexplained viral pneumonia in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province. As of Sunday, 59 people were diagnosed with the condition and have been isolated while they receive treatment, according to the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission. Seven were in critical condition, while the rest were stable. The commission said in a statement that initial investigations have ruled out SARS, as well as Middle East respiratory syndrome, influenza, bird flu and adenovirus. The commission previously said the condition's most common symptom was fever, with shortness of breath and lung infections appearing in a "small number" of cases. There were no clear indications of human-to-human transmission. China slaughters market animals to prevent spread of SARS China investigating outbreak of respiratory illness Several patients were working at the South China Seafood City food market in sprawling Wuhan's suburbs. The commission said the market would be suspended and investigated. 15 infected in Hong Kong Hong Kong's Hospital Authority said Sunday that a total of 15 patients in Hong Kong were being treated for symptoms including fever and respiratory infection after recent visits to Wuhan. Hospitals and doctors have been directed to report cases of fever in anyone who has travelled to Wuhan in the past 14 days, Hong Kong's health chief Sophia Chan said Sunday. The hospital authority said it has activated a "serious response" level to curb spread of the infection. Chan warned Hong Kong residents against visiting wet markets and eating wild game in mainland China. The World Health Organization said it was closely monitoring the situation and maintaining contact with Chinese authorities. No travel or trade restrictions are necessary at this time, the WHO said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories China slaughters market animals to prevent spread of SARS China investigating outbreak of respiratory illness China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now