Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Bangladesh, Myanmar aim to return Rohingya within 2 years Bangladesh and Myanmar have agreed that they will try to complete the repatriation of hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslim refugees who fled from violence in Myanmar within two years, Bangladesh's Foreign Ministry said Tuesday. Social Sharing More than 650,000 Rohingya Muslims have fled to Bangladesh since August The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 16, 2018 3:25 PM ET | Last Updated: January 16, 2018 A Rohingya boy stands with others in a queue Monday outside a food distribution centre in the Balukhali refugee camp 50 kilometres from Cox's Bazar in Bangladesh. (Manish Swarup/Associated Press) Bangladesh and Myanmar have agreed that they will try to complete the repatriation of hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslim refugees who fled from violence in Myanmar within two years, Bangladesh's Foreign Ministry said Tuesday. The ministry said a joint working group from the two countries finalized an agreement on Monday on the physical arrangements for the repatriation of the ethnic Rohingya. It said they agreed that the process "would be completed preferably within two years from the commencement of repatriation." Myanmar and Bangladesh signed an initial agreement in November to repatriate the Rohingya, and the 30-member working group was set up last month to oversee the process. Many have questions whether the Rohingya would return to Myanmar under the current circumstances, and whether Myanmar would accept them and allow them to live freely. Over 6,700 Rohingya killed in a single month, Doctors Without Borders estimates Destruction of Rohingya villages continues: Human Rights Watch Under the November agreement, Rohingya will need to provide evidence of their residency in Myanmar in order to return — something many say they do not have. Denied citizenship More than 650,000 ethnic Rohingya have fled to Bangladesh since August, when Myanmar's military launched a brutal crackdown in Rakhine state after a militant group attacked police posts. Myanmar's army described it as "clearance operations" against terrorists, but the United Nations and the U.S. have called it "ethnic cleansing." Despite having lived in predominantly Buddhist Myanmar for generations, Rohingya Muslims have been denied citizenship, freedom of movement and access to basic social rights. They are generally called "Bengalis," a reference to the belief that they migrated illegally from Bangladesh. A Rohingya boy holds his sibling as they sit on the side of a dirt road in the refugee camp Monday. (Manish Swarup/Associated Press) Arif Hossein, a former teacher in a Myanmar government school who fled to the Kutupalong refugee camp in Bangladesh after violence erupted in August, said he would return if the international organizations working to protect the refugees are able to go along. "And if we get a nationality identity card in Myanmar, then we are more than willing to go back. We really wish to go back to our land. They should return our land and also rebuild our homes," he said. Myanmar officials said the length of the repatriation will depend on how quickly Bangladesh can provide documentation of refugees' previous residency and how fast applications are submitted. Myanmar blocks UN rights investigator weeks before visit "Even though we are talking about a two-year process, it totally depends on how the two countries co-operate," Myanmar government spokesman Zaw Htay said. "Bangladesh authorities also need to proceed with the paperwork and documents for refugees and send it to us fast." Since the November agreement, Myanmar's civilian government led by Aung San Suu Kyi has pledged to take measures to halt the outflow of Rohingya to Bangladesh and restore normalcy in the Rakhine region. A newly arrived Rohingya Muslim refugee woman holds her head in pain after reaching Balukhali refugee camp Sunday. (Manish Swarup/Associated Press) Myanmar officials plan to start the repatriation process next Tuesday. Zaw Htay said at least 500 Hindus and 500 Muslims will be in the first group to return. State-run media in Myanmar reported Monday that a camp is being prepared that can accommodate about 30,000 people in 625 buildings, and that at least 100 buildings will be completed by the end of the month. It would be the first camp built in the repatriation process. The international community and rights groups have stressed that the Myanmar government must guarantee the "safe and voluntary" return of the refugees, and urged that international organizations be allowed to participate. UN needs access However, the UN refugee agency said Tuesday that it has not been invited to take part or given full access to the areas where refugees are to return. "UNCHR and our partners need urgent, unhindered access in Rakhine state in order to assess the situation and provide support to those in need," UNCHR spokesman Andrej Mahecic said in Geneva. U.S.-based Human Rights Watch said the discussions between Myanmar and Bangladesh failed to include any understanding of what the Rohingya want. "Where are considerations for protection of the Rohingya from Myanmar security forces who months ago were raping and killing them?" said Phil Robertson, deputy director of the group's Asia Division. "Why are basic issues like citizenship, freedom of movement and livelihoods not discussed now so refugees can make informed choices?" Myanmar military says soldiers killed 10 captured Rohingya CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Myanmar military says soldiers killed 10 captured Rohingya Rohingya insurgents say 10 found in Myanmar grave were 'innocent civilians' Myanmar blocks UN rights investigator weeks before visit Over 6,700 Rohingya killed in a single month, Doctors Without Borders estimates Destruction of Rohingya villages continues: Human Rights Watch Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now