Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia B.C. beetles are shrinking as habitat warms up, study finds Researchers studied 6,500 bugs collected over the past 100 years. Social Sharing Province's 4 biggest species have shrunk by 20 per cent over past 45 years, research shows CBC News · Posted: Jan 30, 2018 9:23 AM PT | Last Updated: January 30, 2018 Students found that the four largest species of beetles they studied have shrunk by 20 per cent in the last 45 years. (UBC Public Affairs) Some of B.C.'s beetles are getting smaller because their habitats are warming up, according to new research from the University of British Columbia. The study, published in the Journal of Animal Ecology on Tuesday, shows that climate change is having an affect on even the most "teeny tiny" organisms. B.C. spruce beetle outbreak now largest in recorded history A group of students on the study looked at eight species of beetles that were caught in the Okanagan and Lower Mainland over the past 100 years. They compared changes to the bugs' size to temperature data over the past century. In all, the researchers examined and photographed more than 6,500 insects for the project. The students studied 6,500 specimens caught over 100 years for the study, to be published in the Journal of Animal Ecology. (UBC Public Affairs) They found the four biggest species of beetle have shrunk by 20 per cent over the past 45 years. During that time, fall temperatures have risen by 1.6 C in the Lower Mainland and 2.25 C in the Okanagan. "You can definitely tell that just by eyeballing them," said Michelle Tseng, assistant professor in botany and zoology at UBC. "It's pretty substantial." Accelerated growth Hotter weather means less growth for cold-blooded organisms like beetles, said Tseng. "At warmer temperatures, their metabolism is higher," she explained. "So they crank through their juvenile life stages really quickly." Because they're flying through their younger years faster, the big bugs don't have the opportunity to put on weight and end up as smaller adults. Climate change in B.C.: Here's how 2050 could look Most evidence of shrinking organisms has come from laboratories, where the environment and living conditions are more controlled. Tseng, originally an insect ecologist, said the study started when she asked her fourth-year undergraduate students to see if the same thing was happening with specimens collected from the wild. Nine students stayed on after graduation to finish the work. With files from Deborah Goble CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories B.C. spruce beetle outbreak now largest in recorded history Beetlemania The Beetles Are Coming: How a beetle apocalypse hit the forests of Western Canada Bees, butterflies and other pollinators face extinction: UN Warming water temperatures likely causing ice loss in West Antarctic, says new study Climate change in B.C.: Here's how 2050 could look Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now