Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia B.C. Interior steelhead at 'imminent' risk of extinction, advisory committee finds A federal government advisory committee has issued a report saying Interior steelhead are at "imminent" risk of extinction, and the federal government needs to increase legal protection for those populations. Social Sharing But increased federal government protection could reverse the trend, group says Courtney Dickson · CBC News · Posted: Feb 14, 2018 3:14 PM PT | Last Updated: February 14, 2018 Steelhead in the Thompson and Chilcotin rivers are critically low. (Matt Joyce) After fast-tracking an assessment of two steelhead populations in the B.C. Interior, a government advisory committee says Interior steelhead are at "imminent" risk of extinction, and the federal government needs to increase legal protection for those populations. Less than 200 steelhead returned to the Thompson River last year, and about 50 came back to the Chilcotin River  — an 80 per cent decline over the past three generations. The Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC), a group of independent advisers to the federal government, said this is an all-time low for steelhead since records began in 1978. "If this were to continue, the stock would be in trouble," said COSEWIC marine fish species specialist committee co-chair John Neilson. Emergency assessment launched for B.C.'s steelhead Steelhead in B.C. have some legal protection as a catch and release species, but Neilson said it's not enough. COSEWIC said the primary threats to these populations are bycatch and salmon net fisheries and warming ocean temperatures. Not too late Though he said the situation for B.C. Interior steelhead is dire, Neilson doesn't believe it's irreversible. "This is an iconic species," Nielson told CBC's Sarah Penton. "With the news from COSEWIC concerning the dire situation for the steelhead, I'm certainly hoping the minister for environment and climate change acts quickly to adopt our advice and put additional protection in place." 'Extremely close to being gone forever': B.C. fisheries manager says feds failing Interior steelhead Neilson believes the government will step up and increase legal protection, because a similar situation happened in 2012 where the committee identified a need to further protect three at-risk brown bat species and action was taken soon after. "We've seen some remarkable rebuilding stories both in the Atlantic and the Pacific, and I think with strong intentions and strong interventions from government, I think we could effect a turnaround." <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/COSEWIC?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#COSEWIC</a> has assessed BC Thompson and Chilcotin Steelhead Trout as Endangered. We’ll be analyzing COSEWIC’s report to determine next steps. <a href="https://t.co/clJZN5cR4a">https://t.co/clJZN5cR4a</a> <a href="https://t.co/tXJwS6Wbtn">pic.twitter.com/tXJwS6Wbtn</a>&mdash;@DFO_MPO With files from Radio West CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories B.C. Conservation Officer Service investigating reports of steelhead poaching Actor William Shatner calls for 'immediate action' on declining steelhead population 'Hurtling towards extinction': B.C. steelhead returns critically low according to new report Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now