Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia B.C. spruce beetle outbreak now largest in recorded history The outbreak of spruce beetle infestation in north-central B.C. rose to record-breaking levels in 2017, and the latest government data shows no sign of the spread slowing. Social Sharing 'This is a significant concern,' entomologist says as infestation grows to 45 times pre-outbreak levels Andrew Kurjata · CBC News · Posted: Jan 09, 2018 6:00 AM PT | Last Updated: January 9, 2018 The latest aerial surveys show B.C.'s spruce beetle outbreak affecting approximately 340,000 hectares of forest, more than 45 times the pre-outbreak levels recorded in 2013. (B.C. Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development) comments The outbreak of spruce beetle infestation in north-central B.C. rose to record-breaking levels in 2017, and the latest government data shows no sign of it slowing down. Aerial surveys revealed 340,000 hectares of forest are now impacted by the beetle — more than 45 times the pre-outbreak levels of 7,653 hectares recorded in 2013. "This is a significant concern," said Jeanne Robert, the regional forest entomologist for the Omineca and Northeast regions with B.C.'s Ministry of Forests, calling the outbreak "larger and more severe than we have seen in the past." The spread of spruce beetle in north-central B.C. has been increasing exponentially for four years. (B.C. Ministry of Forests) Robert explained that spruce beetle outbreaks are normal, but changing weather patterns and warming winters are likely contributing to the severity of the current situation. Spruce beetles are native to B.C., but normally only feed on fallen or weakened trees. Only during serious and prolonged infestations, do they become capable of killing healthy trees. Still not as severe as mountain pine beetle The current outbreak was declared in 2015, after higher-than-normal spruce beetle numbers were recorded in 2014. Since then, the area affected by beetles has been growing exponentially. The current outbreak is centred near Mackenzie, approximately 200 kilometres north of Prince George. The infestation has spread north toward the Yukon border, west into the Smithers region, and east into the Robson Valley near the B.C.-Alberta border, as well as worsening in the Prince George-Mackenzie region. Robert said because spruce tend to grow in more ecologically diverse areas, the impact of the infestation likely wouldn't be as severe as the mountain pine beetle outbreak that destroyed over 18 million hectares of B.C. forests and continues to spread into Alberta.  Spruce beetles are native to B.C. but can cause major damage to forests during sustained outbreaks. (gov.bc.ca) However, she said the spruce beetle did have the ability to affect the province's mid-term timber supply, which is the amount of wood available for forest companies to harvest in the near future. Robert said the immediate priority is to work with local governments and forestry companies to try and mitigate the effects of the outbreak by prioritizing the harvest of trees being affected by the beetle. However, while she said the spread of the beetle is likely to continue, "it's hard to say for sure what the overall impact will be." With files from Nicole Oud CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Feature: The beetles are coming Yukon's supply of spruce beetle-killed firewood threatens to rot Areas affected by Spruce Beetle in Northern B.C. grow by 35% Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now