Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Business Boeing, Airbus licences to sell jets to Iran to be revoked: U.S. treasury secretary Licences for Boeing Co. and Airbus to sell passenger jets to Iran will be revoked, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said on Tuesday after President Donald Trump pulled the United States out of the 2015 Iran nuclear agreement. Social Sharing Boeing agreed in December 2016 to sell 80 aircraft, worth $17B US at list prices, to IranAir Thomson Reuters · Posted: May 08, 2018 3:36 PM ET | Last Updated: May 8, 2018 Shares of Boeing dipped after U.S. President Donald Trump's announcement that the United States was leaving the Iran nuclear deal and that Washington would reimpose economic sanctions on Tehran. The company has a deal to sell 90 passenger aircraft to Iran. (Brad Nettles, The Post and Courier/Associated Press) Licences for Boeing Co. and Airbus to sell passenger jets to Iran will be revoked, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said on Tuesday after President Donald Trump pulled the United States out of the 2015 Iran nuclear agreement. Trump said he would reimpose U.S. economic sanctions on Iran, which had been lifted under the agreement he has harshly criticized. The pact, worked out by the United States, five other world powers and Iran, lifted sanctions in exchange for Tehran limiting its nuclear program. It was designed to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear bomb. IranAir had ordered 200 passenger aircraft: 100 from Airbus SE, 80 from Boeing and 20 from Franco-Italian turboprop maker ATR. All the deals are dependent on U.S. licenses because of the heavy use of American parts in commercial planes. Iran says it got half price deal for Boeing jets Iran places $16.6B US order with Boeing for 80 new planes Boeing agreed in December 2016 to sell 80 aircraft, worth $17 billion US at list prices, to IranAir under an agreement between Tehran and major world powers to reopen trade in exchange for curbs on Iran's nuclear activities. The U.S. Treasury Department, which controls licensing of exports, said the United States will no longer allow the export of commercial passenger aircraft, parts and services to Iran after a 90-day period. European planemaker Airbus said on Tuesday before the Mnuchin news conference that it would study Trump's decision, adding that it would take some time. Trump pulls U.S. from Iran nuclear deal The National3 years ago 9:22U.S. President Donald Trump has pulled America from the Iran nuclear deal, in a move to reinstate strict economic sanctions. 9:22 Following the 90-day period ending Aug. 6, the Treasury also said it would revoke a license that allowed U.S. companies to negotiate business deals with Iran. The Boeing license had been valid until September 2020, a person involved in the deal said. "As we have throughout this process, we'll continue to follow the U.S. government's lead," Boeing spokesman Gordon Johndroe said before Mnuchin's comments. Trump pulls U.S. out of 'disastrous' Iran nuclear deal, will restore sanctions Boeing Chief Executive Dennis Muilenburg said last month the airplane manufacturer has no Iranian deliveries scheduled this year. He said Boeing's 777 production plan "is not dependent on the Iranian orders." Muilenburg is set to address the Economic Club of Washington on Wednesday. The IranAir order included 15 Boeing 777-300ER long-range jets. Industry sources said Boeing had been tentatively due to send Iran three 777s this year but has reshuffled deliveries with other buyers. Shares of Boeing closed down $2.06, or 0.6 per cent, at $338.37 US on the New York Stock Exchange after Trump's announcement. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Trump pulls U.S. out of 'disastrous' Iran nuclear deal, will restore sanctions Iran places $16.6B US order with Boeing for 80 new planes Iran says it got half price deal for Boeing jets Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now