Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Kitchener-Waterloo Cambridge provincial PC nomination race reopens after 'misunderstanding' Anyone who wants to be the Progressive Conservative candidate in Cambridge in next year's provincial election can once again file papers after an Oct. 4 nomination meeting was cancelled. Social Sharing New candidates can file papers to become PC candidate for Cambridge in 2018 provincial election Kate Bueckert · CBC News · Posted: Sep 22, 2017 3:43 PM ET | Last Updated: September 24, 2017 Ontario Progressive Conservative Leader Patrick Brown (centre) attended a round table session on the province's opioid crisis in August in Cambridge. The party's president, Rick Dykstra, says a nomination meeting in Cambridge that was set for Oct. 4 has been cancelled and will be rescheduled. (Kate Bueckert/CBC) comments After a "misunderstanding" about a Progressive Conservative nomination meeting in Cambridge, the race to be the candidate in the next provincial election is open once again. Party president Rick Dykstra said the current candidates can continue to sell memberships and "if there are additional candidates who wish to run, they can also now file with the party." Cambridge riding nomination process a 'misunderstanding' says PC president There was some confusion over the nomination meeting after local riding officials planned to hold the meeting sometime in November - with November 4 being the suggested date. Then on Sept. 15, the party's executive announced the meeting would instead be Oct. 4 and anyone wishing to run had to have their paperwork in by Sept. 19. Nomination meeting cancelled Local riding member Jim Karahalios, who set up the group Take Back Our PC Party, said the party was "flat out breaking the rules" when it comes to setting up nomination meetings. Karahalio said that the party cannot interfere with a local riding association's plans – including setting up a nomination meeting – until after Oct. 1, 2017, according to the rules on the party's website. On Thursday, Dykstra called it a "misunderstanding." Rob Leone, the former MPP for Cambridge and the riding association's president, declined an interview Friday, but said in a statement there were concerns about the party's motives. Conservative stalwart Lebreton's advice to Ontario leader Patrick Brown: 'Do the right thing' "Local members became concerned that the party was prepared to parachute a candidate in to the riding against the wishes of the local association. This was not based on fact," Leone said. "Rather it was based on the dual perception that some candidates do not live in the riding and various media reports of irregular practices in other PC nomination races across the province." Leone said the riding association raised concerns with the party. "We are very pleased to report that [PC Leader] Patrick Brown and his team at party headquarters listened to the grassroots of the party," Leone wrote.  New candidates still welcome On Friday, Dykstra said the riding executive had indicated to the party there were more candidates who wanted to run in Cambridge. Riding members received an email from the party that read: "At the request of the chair of the provincial nominations committee, the nomination meeting scheduled for Oct. 4, 2017 at the Paragon Banquet Hall at 5:30 p.m. has been cancelled. An e-mail notification will be sent to all current members and notification will be posted on the party website." Would-be candidate challenging PC nomination ordered to pay party $136K in legal costs Leone said more than 2,000 new members joined the association during the nomination season and he's looking forward to moving on with the nomination process. "We wish to emphasize that no irregularities or rigging has in fact occurred," Leone wrote. "We look forward to working with the party to find a new, agreeable, and fair date." Dykstra agreed. "I anticipate we will see a significant increase in those seeking the nomination in Cambridge," Dykstra said. "This can be nothing less than positive both locally and for our party." Full statement from Rob Leone, president of the Cambridge PC riding association:  Statement Regarding Cambridge PC Nomination The October 4th nomination meeting has been canceled. The Cambridge Association preferred a date in early November, but the PC Party had scheduled the meeting a month in advance. When this happened, local members became concerned that the Party was prepared to parachute a candidate in to the riding against the wishes of the local association. This was not based on fact. Rather it was based on the dual perception that some candidates do not live in the riding and various media reports of irregular practices in other PC nomination races across the province. The Cambridge Association formally raised these concerns with the Party this week. Our view is that the only way to avoid the negative perception was to adhere to the established rules. We are very pleased to report that Patrick Brown and his team at Party Headquarters listened to the grassroots of the party.  We wish to thank Executive Director Bob Stanley and President Rick Dykstra for their courage in making the difficult decision to call for a new nomination date. We wish to emphasize that no irregularities or rigging has in fact occurred. We are proud to have welcomed over 2000 new members to our Association during this nomination season. We move forward with renewed confidence that the winner of the Cambridge nomination will be well positioned to win the seat back in 2018. We look forward to working with the Party to find a new, agreeable, and fair date. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Cambridge riding nomination process a 'misunderstanding' says PC president Ontario party leaders fling mud over minimum wage at Plowing Match Would-be candidate challenging PC nomination ordered to pay party $136K in legal costs Hamilton riding PC candidates allege voter fraud, ballot box stuffing Partridge chooses Liberals over PCs after both courted her for Flamborough-Glanbrook Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now