Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Canada's foreign affairs minister lands in Washington amid trade feud with Trump Canada's foreign affairs minister is in Washington once again to push the country's anti-tariff, pro-NAFTA message. It is the first visit by a high-profile cabinet member since the trade feud with the United States erupted. Social Sharing Chrystia Freeland to repeat Canada's anti-tariff pro-NAFTA pitch to lawmakers, U.S. media Katie Simpson · CBC News · Posted: Jun 13, 2018 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: June 13, 2018 Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland returns to Washington today, to make Canada's anti-tariff pro-NAFTA pitch to U.S. lawmakers. (Henry Romero/Reuters) comments Canada's foreign affairs minister may attract a bigger crowd than she's used to during her two-day trip to Washington. Today marks the first visit by a high-profile minister to the United States since President Donald Trump launched his blistering attacks against Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Canadians at large.  Chrystia Freeland has a series of meetings with U.S. lawmakers, but she's hoping to make waves with a speech she will deliver at an awards gala tonight.  G7 unity torpedoed by angry Trump tweets dismissing Trudeau as 'dishonest & weak' Freeland has been named Diplomat of the Year by Foreign Policy magazine, and she will give an acceptance speech in front of ambassadors, journalists and likely some lawmakers. Sources are billing the event as a followup to the speech she delivered in the House of Commons last year, where she declared Canada would step up on the international stage, as the U.S. abandons its traditional position and turns inward.  While she is not expected to lash out at the Trump administration on American soil, she will be promoting Canada's support for multilateralism, and its opposition to the tariffs recently imposed by the U.S. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau meets with U.S. President Donald Trump at the G7 leaders summit in La Malbaie, Que., on June 8. (Justin Tang/Canadian Press) Trump placed tariffs on steel and aluminum from Canada, Mexico, and the European Union on June 1. The decision has frustrated G7 leaders, who spent the recent summit in Charlevoix, Que., lobbying the president to reverse his policy. Renewed charm offensive Freeland will pick up Canada's lobbying efforts during this visit to D.C. Although she is still trying to confirm a meeting with her American counterpart, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, she will be meeting with members of the powerful Senate foreign relations committee. 'Moments of drama' expected from U.S. as Trump renews attack on Trudeau That meeting will be held behind closed doors, but her anti-tariff, pro-NAFTA message will be welcomed by the chair of the committee, Republican Sen. Bob Corker, who personally extended the invitation to Freeland.  Corker has called on Trump to kill the tariffs, and even looked for legislative ways he could limit the president's decision-making power on trade related issues. His efforts were shut down, but frustration remains among some Republicans.  Canada is looking to re-establish respectful trade talks with the U.S., in the hopes of eventually seeing these tariffs lifted. A source with direct knowledge of the situation says Ottawa has two goals in the short term: to reassure Canadians and business leaders during this time of crisis; and to re-energize trade discussions, including NAFTA negotiations. There are no formal plans for chief negotiators from Canada, the U.S., and Mexico to meet face-to-face any time soon. NAFTA talks broke down last month over an American demand for a so-called "sunset clause." The provision would automatically end NAFTA in five years, unless all three countries agreed to remain in the pact. Canada and Mexico both oppose the provision, since it would create investment instability.  Building opposition support When Freeland returns to Canada on Thursday, she will be looking for additional support at home. She will be flying to Toronto in the afternoon, to meet with Ontario premier-elect Doug Ford. It will be Freeland's first meeting with Ford since the Progressive Conservative leader won the provincial election last week.  Ford has already publicly declared his support to the Trudeau government on this issue, but Ottawa is looking to spread that message at every opportunity. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Katie Simpson Politics Katie Simpson is a foreign correspondent with CBC News based in Washington. Prior to joining the team in D.C. she spent six years covering Parliament Hill in Ottawa and nearly a decade covering local and provincial issues in Toronto. Follow @CBCKatie on Twitter More from Katie Simpson CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now