Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Canada still wants to work with China despite blocked Aecon takeover: Bains Canada is still open to working with China after killing a massive planned takeover of Canadian construction company Aecon Group Inc. by Chinese interests, said Innovation Minister Navdeep Bains. Social Sharing Sale of Aecon to China's CCCC International Holding Ltd. would have been worth $1.5B CBC News · Posted: May 24, 2018 12:22 PM ET | Last Updated: May 24, 2018 Innovation, Science and Economic Development Minister Navdeep Bains says the government listened to the advice of its national security agencies before blocking the takeover of a Canadian construction company by Chinese interests. (Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press) comments Canada is still open to working with China after killing a massive planned takeover of Canadian construction company Aecon Group Inc. by Chinese interests, said Innovation Minister Navdeep Bains. "I'm confident that we'll continue to work together. We want to pursue strong economic ties with China and we'll continue to engage them on a range of files," Bains told a crowd at Algonquin College in Ottawa Thursday morning. "We're also very clear that we're open for trade, we're open for investment, but not at the expense of national security." On Wednesday, news broke that the federal government had blocked the $1.5 billion sale of Aecon to China's CCCC International Holding Ltd., also known as CCCI, citing national security. Bains on why he blocked the Aecon sale Politics News3 years ago 0:25Innovation Minister Navdeep Bains spoke to reporters in Ottawa Thursday 0:25 Canada has been pursuing free trade talks with China, but those conversations seem to have hit a wall. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau spent four days in China in December, but left without a formal commitment to moving the free trade talks past the exploratory phase into formal negotiations. "We don't want trade with China any which way, at any cost," Trudeau told Reuters in an interview Thursday. "We want the right kind of trade deals with China and dealing with security issues ... should be and would be part of any mature relationship we try to establish with one of the world's largest and growing economies." Stewart Beck, CEO of the Asia Pacific Foundation — an independent not-for-profit think tank on Canada/Asia relations — said the government's decision could complicate future trade talks with China. "It's going to create some problems down the road in terms of negotiating a free trade agreement with the Chinese," he said Wednesday night. Federal government blocks sale of construction giant Aecon to Chinese interests The potential takeover of the 141-year-old Canadian construction company by CCCI, a division of a Chinese state-owned company, was put on hold in February so the federal government could conduct a national security review of the deal. Bains would not reveal what specific threats to Canada's national security surfaced during the review. "Under the Investment Canada Act, we have a very rigorous and robust process. We have a multi-step national security review process. That process was followed," he said. Opposition backs rejection "I followed that advice, but at the same time we've been very clear that we are open to trade and investment but not at the expense of national security." Aecon's stocks had tumbled almost 15 per cent by noon Thursday. The stock is now worth less than it was worth before CCCI offered to buy the company in October 2017. Conservative MP Tony Clement welcomed the decision, but called for a review into whether other Chinese state-owned companies have bought Canadian assets. NDP MP Brian Masse said he agrees with Ottawa's rejection of the bid, but questioned why it took so long to come to a decision. John Beck, president and CEO of Aecon, said the company is disappointed by the decision but "will continue to be a leading player in the Canadian construction and infrastructure market." Clement says it's the 'right decision' to block the Aecon deal Politics News3 years ago 1:35Conservative Tony Clement spoke to the CBC's Chris Rands 1:35 Aecon has played a role in some of Canada's most recognized projects, including the CN Tower, the St. Lawrence Seaway, Vancouver's SkyTrain and the Montreal airport. As concerns were being expressed about the CCCI deal, Aecon withdrew from a group bid to build the Gordie Howe bridge, proposed between Detroit and Windsor, Ont. At the time, it cited financial reasons. With files from Reuters and The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Federal government blocks sale of construction giant Aecon to Chinese interests Aecon extends deadline to complete sale to Chinese company as federal review continues Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now