Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Canada, provinces lack clear plan to adapt to climate change, auditors say Neither Ottawa nor the provinces have really assessed the risks a changing climate poses to the country and have no real idea what might be needed to adapt to it, said a new audit released Tuesday. Social Sharing Report says Canada's climate goals lack clarity and consistency, with emissions targets unlikely to be met Mia Rabson · The Canadian Press · Posted: Mar 27, 2018 11:57 AM ET | Last Updated: March 27, 2018 Environmental Commissioner Julie Gelfand says Canada's work on climate change will require a concerted effort across all levels of government and that the country's work is far from being done. (Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press) comments Neither Ottawa nor the provinces have really assessed the risks a changing climate poses to the country and have no real idea of what might be needed to adapt to it, says a new audit released Tuesday. The joint audit, conducted by federal Environment Commissioner Julie Gelfand and auditors general in nine provinces, looks at climate change planning and emissions reduction progress between November 2016 and March 2018. Audit: Canada not on track to meet climate goals Politics News3 years ago 6:56'We are absolutely committed to [2030 target],' says federal Environment Minister Catherine McKenna. 6:56 It says while many governments have high-level goals to cut emissions, few have detailed plans to actually reach those goals, such as timelines, funding or expected results from specific actions. The audit says assessments to adapt to the risks posed by climate change have been haphazard, inconsistent and lacking in detail, with no timeline for action and no funding. Read the environment commissioners' report The country's emissions goals are also a hodgepodge of different targets, with no consistency in how emissions are measured or whether cuts will target overall greenhouse gas outputs or just those from specific economic sectors. The auditors say that means there is no clarity on how Canada and the provinces and territories are going to measure, monitor and report on their contributions to meeting Canada's international commitment to cut emissions by at least 30 per cent from 2005 levels by 2030. New audit: Canada not on track to meet climate goals Politics News3 years ago 6:27'We develop plans but we don't put them into action,' says federal environment commissioner Julie Gelfand. 6:27 As of 2015, the most recent year for which full statistics are available, Canada was nearly 200 million tonnes short of that goal, which is the equivalent of the emissions produced by about 44 million cars each year. That is twice the number of vehicles registered in Canada. B.C. lacks climate change policies, especially for wildfires and flooding, audit finds Nunavut not prepared for climate change impacts, auditor general says Environment Minister Catherine McKenna said it's the first time auditors have completed such a review of Canada's climate change policies, which she sees as an important recognition of the priority climate change should have in government business. But she said the audit — as Gelfand herself notes — looks backwards and does not actually take into account the Pan-Canadian Framework on Clean Growth and Climate Change. That plan was released in December 2016, after the audit's scope was already established. It also falls short of reaching the 2030 goals, however. McKenna said the plan addresses many of the concerns in the audit, outlining how certain policies will achieve specific emissions cuts. "The previous government did nothing for a decade but we're 100 per cent committed to our target," McKenna said. "Hard things are hard. We have a plan and we're already seeing measurable results." May on climate action report Politics3 years ago 2:07Green Party Leader Elizabeth May comments on the Federal Environment Commissioner's report on climate action plans across the country 2:07 Catherine Abreu, executive director of the Climate Action Network, said this audit looks at what progress was made to meet Canada's existing targets — including the 2020 commitment, which Canada has abandoned knowing it has no hope of meeting it. That target was to bring emissions 17 per cent below 2005 levels by 2020. Abreu notes that is the third international emissions target Canada has set and will miss. The Gelfand report says the 2030 plan is at risk if Canada and the provinces don't step it up. All provinces but Saskatchewan are currently signed on to the pan-Canadian framework, which requires every province to put a price on pollution by the start of next year. The four biggest provinces already have one. Manitoba will add a $25-a-tonne carbon tax in September and every other province will either have to establish their own price or have a federal price imposed as of next Jan. 1. NDP on climate action report Politics3 years ago 0:31The NDP's Linda Duncan comments on the Environment Commissioner's climate action report 0:31 There could be rough waters ahead. Saskatchewan hasn't joined the framework and says it will sue if the federal government tries to impose a carbon price. Ontario and Alberta both have a carbon price plan in place — cap and trade for Ontario and a carbon tax system with hard caps on emissions from the oilsands for Alberta — but coming provincial elections could bring to power premiers who are running on a promise to end carbon pricing. McKenna said the clean technology sector is developing in response to climate change, creating an enormous economic opportunity — while not taking action on climate change now will cost the government money later. "It is disappointing when you have politicians pretending that there is no cost to climate change," she said. "Right now the cost to the federal government is in the billions of dollars to deal with the impacts of climate change, whether it's floods, whether it's forest fires, a melting Arctic. We need to be taking action." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Nunavut not prepared for climate change impacts, auditor general says B.C. lacks climate change policies, especially for wildfires and flooding, audit finds Nova Scotia's cap-and-trade system inching forward N.W.T. needs to step up its climate change strategy, says auditor general Auditor general finds holes in Yukon's climate change response NDP knew climate plan wouldn't meet emissions targets: auditor general's report N.W.T. environment department failing on climate change file, says Auditor General's office External Links Read the environment commissioners' report Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now