Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal CAQ promises to free up 50,000 daycare spots by putting kids in preschool early Letting children start government-funded pre-kindergarten at age four would mean more openings at public daycares, said CAQ leader François Legault. Social Sharing Letting children start government-funded pre-k at age 4 would mean more openings at public daycares CBC News · Posted: Aug 25, 2018 4:54 PM ET | Last Updated: August 25, 2018 CAQ leader François Legault made the announcement at a campaign event on the South Shore on Saturday. (Radio-Canada) comments The Coalition Avenir Québec announced a plan Saturday to free up 50,000 daycare spots by making government-funded pre-kindergarten available to children as of age four. During a campaign event in Boucherville, CAQ leader François Legault said that by putting kids in public preschool sooner, thousands of daycare spaces would open up. Legault spoke at a rally on Montreal's South Shore in Montarville, a riding now held by the CAQ. He said the policy could come into effect as early as 2019 and that a similar policy is already in operation in Ontario. Vote Compass: Compare your views to the Quebec party platforms Quebec Poll Tracker: CAQ inches ahead, majority now a coin flip Sign up for our newsletter. We'll deliver everything you need to know about the Quebec election, directly to your inbox. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Despite one good poll for the Liberals, the CAQ remains in control Liberals stand by school board system, calling it an Anglo rights issue Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now