Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Business Chinese construction firm CCCI to buy Canada's Aecon for $1.5B Aecon Group Inc. has signed a deal to be acquired for $1.5 billion by CCCC International Holding Ltd. of China, subject to shareholder and government approvals. Social Sharing Deal represents at 42% premium to what Aecon was trading at before the news The Canadian Press · Posted: Oct 26, 2017 9:09 AM ET | Last Updated: October 26, 2017 Aecon put itself up for sale this past summer. (Arnulfo Franco/Associated Press) Aecon Group Inc. has signed a deal to be acquired for $1.5 billion by CCCC International Holding Ltd. of China, subject to shareholder and government approvals. CCCC International has agreed to pay $20.37 per Aecon share in cash to buy the Canadian construction company, which said in August that it was looking for potential buyers. "We believe this is a very positive outcome for Aecon and our key stakeholders," Aecon chairman Brian Tobin said in a statement Thursday. "This transaction is the result of an active and diligent sale process that has enabled us to select an outstanding partner and create significant shareholder value." Deal needs regulatory approval Aecon shares closed at $16.52 on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday. CCCC International, also known as CCCI, is the overseas investment and financing arm of China Communications Construction Company Ltd., one of the world's largest engineering and construction groups. Aecon will continue to be headquartered in Canada while CCCI's size and financial strength will help it bid for larger and more complex projects, the companies said. Canada welcomes Chinese investment, minister tells Beijing conference "Aecon has a strong management team and a very impressive track record that have made it a leading construction company in Canada and a pioneer in public private partnerships and concession operations," CCCI president Lu Jianzhong said. It will now gain access to significant capital, complementary infrastructure expertise and an international network to support its growth ambitions." The offer requires the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast at a special meeting of Aecon shareholders as well as government and regulatory approvals under the Investment Canada Act, the Canadian Competition Act and authorities in China. The announcement of the deal came as Aecon reported a third-quarter profit of $24.6 million or 37 cents per diluted share, down from a profit of $27.4 million or 42 cents per diluted share a year ago. Revenue fell to $759.7 million compared with $838.1 million in the same quarter last year. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Canada welcomes Chinese investment in oilsands, minister tells Beijing conference Rona takeover by Lowe's gets OK from Ottawa and Competition Bureau Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now