Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics China heaping scorn on North Korea meeting next week in Vancouver China heaping scorn on North Korea meeting next week in China is taking aim at an international summit on North Korea in Vancouver next week, saying the event co-hosted by Canada and the United States is likely to do more harm than good. Social Sharing 'It will only create divisions within the international community,' says Chinese foreign ministry Lee Berthiaume · The Canadian Press · Posted: Jan 11, 2018 9:19 AM ET | Last Updated: January 11, 2018 Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland and U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson announced plans to hold the Jan. 16 meeting on North Korea during his visit to Ottawa last month. (Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press) China is taking aim at an international summit on North Korea in Vancouver next week, saying the event co-hosted by Canada and the United States is likely to do more harm than good. The Canadian government is keeping a tight lid on which countries have been invited and plan to attend Tuesday's meeting, which Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland is organizing with U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. But a spokesman for the Chinese foreign ministry revealed Wednesday that his country will not be at the table, even as he criticized the meeting and suggested it will set back — rather than advance — peace efforts. North, South Korea agree to further talks aimed at easing tensions "It will only create divisions within the international community and harm joint efforts to appropriately resolve the Korean peninsula nuclear issue," spokesman Lu Kang was quoted as telling reporters in Beijing. Russia, China not attending Russia is also expected to be absent along with China, meaning two of North Korea's most important and influential neighbours will be missing when Freeland and Tillerson sit down with other foreign ministers. A Japanese foreign ministry official, meanwhile, was quoted by Bloomberg News on Wednesday raising questions about the involvement of countries such as Colombia and Greece, which are peripheral to the North Korea crisis. There have been growing concerns over the last six months about North Korea's nuclear and ballistic-missile capabilities. (Lee Jin-man/Associated Press) Global Affairs Canada spokeswoman Amy Mills said Canada recognizes the essential role that China has to play in any diplomatic efforts involving North Korea, and has "repeatedly engaged" with it about the Vancouver meeting. But Mills would not say whether China had been invited to the Vancouver meeting and declined to provide a list of countries that had received invitations, saying a list of participating states "will be released in due time." Freeland and Tillerson announced plans to hold the Jan. 16 meeting during Tillerson's visit to Ottawa last month. Nuclear threat top of mind The decision followed growing concerns over the last six months about North Korea's nuclear and ballistic-missile capabilities, which the country has showcased numerous times with a variety of tests. The meeting is ostensibly designed to show international solidarity in the face of the North Korean threat, discuss ways to strengthen sanctions against the country and seek diplomatic solutions to the crisis. Kim Jong-un says 'the entire United States within range of our nuclear weapons' 'I too have a nuclear button,' Trump warns Kim Jong-un Yet without Russia and China, both of which have been involved in the so-called Six-Party Talks aimed at finding a peaceful resolution to North Korea's nuclear program, it's unclear what the Vancouver meeting can really achieve. "If both China and Russia are absent from the meeting, then the significance and the utility of the gathering will be greatly discounted," Wenran Jiang, an expert on Asian politics from the University of Alberta, said in an email. "It is simply not possible to have meaningful outcome without China and/or Russia at the table when it comes to dealing with crisis on the Korean peninsula." But University of British Columbia professor Paul Evans, one of Canada's top experts on Asia, said it remains unclear what the government hopes to achieve with the meeting — or even what approach it wants to take on North Korea. That will ultimately decide whether the government views the Vancouver meeting as a success. "Is it going to be middle-power multilateralism, where we bring countries together, the like-minded and not like-minded, to fashion some solutions that will be supportive of what the big guys are going to be doing?" Evans said. "Or is this coalitional activity with our American friends, signalling we are onside with them come hell or high water?" CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Kim Jong-un says 'the entire United States within range of our nuclear weapons' 'I too have a nuclear button,' Trump warns Kim Jong-un North, South Korea agree to hold talks Tuesday, Seoul says 'We are at the crossroads between peace and war,' ambassador warns of North Korea's nuclear threat North, South Korea agree to further talks aimed at easing tensions Analysis As rival Koreas thaw relations before the Winter Olympics, U.S. could get frozen out Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now