Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Health China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44 Chinese health authorities are trying to identify what is causing an outbreak of pneumonia in the central city of Wuhan, officials said on Friday, as the tally of cases rose to 44 and Singapore said it would screen arrivals on flights from there. Social Sharing Rumours on social media suggested it could be linked to SARS Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jan 03, 2020 10:45 AM ET | Last Updated: January 3, 2020 Masks, worn by a couple in Beijing, are a common sight in China. They're used either to protect against illness or when air quality goes down. China is investigating 44 cases of a mysterious respiratory illness in the central city of Wuhan. (Ng Han Guan/The Associated Press) Chinese health authorities are trying to identify what is causing an outbreak of pneumonia in the central city of Wuhan, officials said on Friday, as the tally of cases rose to 44 and Singapore said it would screen arrivals on flights from there. Authorities this week said they were investigating 27 cases of infection after rumours on social media suggested the outbreak could be linked to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). The World Health Organization said it was aware of the reports, is monitoring the situation and is in contact with the Chinese government about it. "Investigations are still being carried out and authorities cannot yet confirm what pathogen is causing this illness," said WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic. He added that there are several potential causes of viral pneumonia, many of which are more common than SARS. Influenza, bird flu, adenovirus ruled out Chinese municipal health officials in Wuhan said in a statement on their website on Friday that they had ruled out common respiratory diseases, such as influenza, bird flu and adenovirus infection, as the cause. Eleven of those infected were in critical condition and the rest stable, they said, adding that all had been isolated and doctors were observing 121 people with whom they had been in close contact. Clean-up efforts at a seafood market where some victims were vendors have been completed, the city officials said, adding that no obvious human-to-human transmission had been seen and no medical staff had been infected. On Friday, Singapore's health ministry said it would begin temperature screening on passengers arriving on flights from Wuhan. In 2003, Chinese officials covered up a SARS outbreak for weeks before a growing death toll and rumours forced the government to reveal the epidemic, apologize and vow full candour regarding future outbreaks. SECOND OPINIONPlague in 2019? Why there's no reason to panic about China's recent cases MERS outbreak: 3 lessons Canada learned from SARS The disease, which emerged in southern China late in 2002, spread rapidly to other cities and countries in 2003. More than 8,000 people were infected and 775 died. Wuhan police this week said they had summoned eight people who "posted and forwarded false information online, causing adverse social impact." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories China investigating outbreak of respiratory illness MERS outbreak: 3 lessons Canada learned from SARS South Korea sees end of MERS threat in country University suggests faculty avoid trips to China amid RCMP probe into lab researchers Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now