Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Health China reports 15 new coronavirus fatalities, total death toll now 56 China's leader has called the accelerating spread of the coronavirus a grave situation, as cities from the outbreak's epicentre in central China to Hong Kong scrambled to contain the illness. Social Sharing President Xi Jinping says China facing grave situation with 1,975 total cases reported The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 25, 2020 5:57 AM ET | Last Updated: January 26, 2020 Medical staff arrive with a patient at the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital in Wuhan, China, on Saturday. (Hector Retamal/AFP via Getty Images) comments The death toll from the coronavirus in China has risen to 56 with 1,975 total cases reported. The figures reported Sunday morning cover the previous 24 hours and mark an increase of 15 deaths and 688 cases. The Chinese government also reported five cases in Hong Kong, two in Macao and three in Taiwan. Small numbers of cases have been found in Thailand, Japan, South Korea, the U.S., Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Nepal, France and Australia. In Canada, health officials in Ontario on Saturday confirmed its first "presumptive" case of coronavirus in Toronto. The U.S. Consulate in Wuhan will evacuate its personnel and some private citizens aboard a charter flight Tuesday. A notice from the embassy in Beijing on Sunday said there would be limited capacity to transport U.S. citizens on the flight that will proceed directly to San Francisco. It said that in the event there are not enough seats, priority will be given to individuals "at greater risk from coronavirus." President Xi Jinping on Saturday called the spreading illness a grave situation in remarks reported by state broadcaster CCTV. He spoke at a meeting of Communist Party leaders convened on Lunar New Year — the country's biggest holiday whose celebrations have been muted — and underlined the government's urgent, expanding efforts to control the outbreak Travel agencies have been told to halt all group tours, the state-owned English-language China Daily newspaper reported, citing the China Association of Travel Services. Watch: 'Presumptive' case of coronavirus in Toronto First case of coronavirus confirmed in Toronto CBC News1 year ago 2:24Public health officials confirm the first "presumptive" case of the coronavirus in Toronto, but say the risk to Ontarians is still low. 2:24 Millions of people travelling during the holiday have fuelled the spread of the outbreak nationwide and overseas after it began in the city of Wuhan in central China. The vast majority of the infections and all the deaths have been in mainland China, but fresh cases are popping up. Singapore reported its fourth case on Sunday, a 36-year-old man from Wuhan. The Health Ministry said he did not exhibit any symptoms on his flight. He developed a cough the next day, sought treatment on Jan. 24 and was immediately isolated. South Korea confirmed its third case, according to Yonhap news agency. Cities scramble to contain virus In the heart of the outbreak where 11 million residents are already on lockdown, Wuhan banned most vehicle use, including private cars, in downtown areas starting Sunday, state media reported. Only authorized vehicles would be permitted, the reports said. The city will assign 6,000 taxis to neighbourhoods, under the management of resident committees, to help people get around if they need to, China Daily said. In Hong Kong, leader Carrie Lam said her government will raise its response level to emergency, the highest one, and close primary and secondary schools for two more weeks on top of next week's Lunar New Year holiday. They will reopen Feb. 17. People wear masks on a train on the first day of the Lunar New Year in Hong Kong on Saturday. (Dale de la Rey/AFP via Getty Images) Lam said direct flights and trains from Wuhan would be blocked. In a sign of the growing strain on Wuhan's health-care system, the official Xinhua News Agency reported that the city planned to build a second makeshift hospital with about 1,000 beds. The city has said another hospital was expected to be completed Feb. 3. CBC ExplainsWhat we know (and don't know) about the coronavirus outbreak The new virus comes from a large family of what are known as coronaviruses, some causing nothing worse than a cold. It causes cold- and flu-like symptoms, including cough and fever, and in more severe cases, shortness of breath. It can worsen to pneumonia, which can be fatal. China cut off trains, planes and other links to Wuhan on Wednesday, as well as public transportation within the city, and has steadily expanded a lockdown to 16 surrounding cities with a combined population of more than 50 million — greater than that of New York, London, Paris and Moscow combined. China's biggest holiday, Lunar New Year, unfolded Saturday in the shadow of the virus. Authorities cancelled a host of events, and closed major tourist destinations and movie theatres. Temples locked their doors, Beijing's Forbidden City and Shanghai Disneyland closed, and people cancelled restaurant reservations ahead of the holiday, normally a time of family reunions, sightseeing trips and other festivities in the country of 1.4 billion people. Beijing struggles to keep up with a virus  — and a nation on the move "We originally planned to go back to my wife's hometown and bought train tickets to depart this afternoon," said Li Mengbin, who was on a stroll near the closed Forbidden City. "We ended up cancelling. But I'm still happy to celebrate the new year in Beijing, which I hadn't for several years." Temples and parks were decorated with red streamers, paper lanterns and booths, but some places started dismantling the decor. Demand for gloves, masks People in China wore medical masks to public places like grocery stores, where workers dispensed hand sanitizer to customers. Some parts of the country had checkpoints for temperature readings and made masks mandatory. French automaker PSA Group said it will evacuate its employees from Wuhan, quarantine them and then bring them to France. The Foreign Ministry said it was working on "eventual options" to evacuate French citizens from Wuhan "who want to leave." It didn't elaborate. The National Health Commission said it is bringing in medical teams to help handle the outbreak, a day after videos circulating online showed throngs of frantic people in masks lined up for examinations and complaints that family members had been turned away at hospitals that were at capacity. The Chinese military dispatched 450 medical staff, some with experience in past outbreaks, including SARS and Ebola, who arrived in Wuhan late Friday to help treat many patients hospitalized with viral pneumonia, Xinhua reported. Xinhua also said medical supplies are being rushed to the city, including 14,000 protective suits, 110,000 pairs of gloves and masks and goggles. The rapid increase in reported deaths and illnesses does not necessarily mean the crisis is getting worse but could reflect better monitoring and reporting of the virus. It is not clear how lethal the new coronavirus is or even whether it is as dangerous as the ordinary flu, which kills tens of thousands of people every year in the U.S. alone. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Second Opinion 'It plays to our worst fears': Coronavirus misinformation fuelled by social media CBC Explains What we know (and don't know) about the coronavirus outbreak China confirms human-to-human transmission of new coronavirus U.S. officials confirm first U.S. case of China coronavirus Why tracing the animal source of coronavirus matters Cirque du Soleil cancels all shows in China, citing coronavirus concerns Patient in Japan infected with new coronavirus from China Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now