Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Conservatives call Trudeau a 'hypocrite' for boasting of environmental creds while flying 2 campaign planes The Conservatives are calling Justin Trudeau a 'carbon hypocrite' for flying two planes during the 40-day election campaign, emitting double the carbon emissions of other campaigns. Social Sharing Liberals say second plane is used to transport equipment for campaign events Kathleen Harris · CBC News · Posted: Oct 02, 2019 10:18 PM ET | Last Updated: October 3, 2019 Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau boards his campaign plane in Ottawa on Sunday, Sept. 29, 2019. The Conservatives are accusing the Liberals of being hypocritical for talking about tackling climate change while using two campaign planes. (Ryan Remiorz/The Canadian Press) comments The Conservatives are calling Justin Trudeau a "carbon hypocrite" for flying two planes during the 40-day election campaign, emitting double the carbon emissions of other campaigns. The Conservatives issued a news release — including travel logs and photographs of the two planes — during the French language debate hosted by TVA. "Despite marching in climate strikes, lecturing everybody else on lowering emissions and imposing a carbon tax on hard-working Canadians, Justin Trudeau and the Liberals are secretly using two aircraft to campaign in this election," the release says. The Liberals issued their own release in response, accusing Scheer of being "desperate to deflect from the fact that Conservatives have no plan for the environment." 4 federal leaders fight to woo Quebec voters in fiery French-language debate Greta Thunberg meets Trudeau, tells him he's not doing enough to fight climate change In a news conference after the Montreal debate, Trudeau confirmed the Liberal Party is using a cargo plane as well as a regular plane, as it did in the 2015 campaign. "It allows us to do more events in more parts of the country and meet more Canadians," he said. "It's an important part of our national campaign to meet as many people as possible." Carbon offsets Trudeau said the Liberals will purchase carbon offsets for all of the campaign transportation on planes and buses. "I will highlight that Andrew Scheer and his Conservatives did not purchase carbon offsets for their transportation because they think pollution should be free," he said. Trudeau promises $40K interest-free loans to make homes energy efficient and safer from severe weather The climate change issue keeps dogging Andrew Scheer on the campaign trail Scheer said he couldn't understand why the Liberals needed two planes, since the single Conservative aircraft has ample space for luggage and equipment. "I don't know what types of props or costumes or camping equipment he's bringing along, but he's made his choice. If he thinks it's okay to emit far more emissions than our campaign is emitting, we're going to hold him to account for his hypocrisy," he said. Watch: Andrew Scheer calls Justin Trudeau a 'hypocrite' for having 2 campaign planes; Trudeau points to carbon offsets Scheer calls Trudeau 'hypocrite' for 2 campaign planes Politics1 year ago 1:08Andrew Scheer calls Justin Trudeau a "complete hypocrite" for having two campaign planes, while Trudeau says unlike the Conservatives, his party bought carbon credits for their planes and buses, following Wednesday's TVA debate. 1:08 "It's always the same with this guy. He's always very quick at giving lessons and lectures and sermons about how everyone else should live their lives, but when it comes to his own personal behaviour, he's a complete hypocrite." A Conservative party spokesman, Simon Jefferies, said in an email to CBC News the Conservatives are not purchasing carbon offsets for their plane. With files from Katie Simpson CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 4 federal leaders fight to woo Quebec voters in fiery French-language debate Greta Thunberg meets Trudeau, tells him he's not doing enough to fight climate change Trudeau promises $40K interest-free loans to make homes energy efficient and safer from severe weather The climate change issue keeps dogging Andrew Scheer on the campaign trail Analysis Scheer says British Columbia's carbon tax hasn't worked. Expert studies say it has Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now