Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto COVID-19 pandemic forces Ontario Superior Court to suspend upcoming jury trials Upcoming jury trials in the province have been suspended due to the COVID-19, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice announced Thursday night. Social Sharing Jury trials already underway will continue, attorney general's office says CBC News · Posted: Mar 12, 2020 9:23 PM ET | Last Updated: March 13, 2020 The Ontario Superior Court of Justice has suspended jury selection for future trials due to the COVID-19 pandemic. (Robert Krbavac/CBC ) comments Upcoming jury trials in the province have been suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice announced Thursday night. "Ontario Superior Court of Justice has suspended jury selection for future trials at this time," the court said on Twitter.  "Jury panels for upcoming matters are being directed not to attend court." The court said it will post more information on its website on Friday. Jenessa Crognali, the senior communications adviser and press secretary in the attorney general's office, said this is a precautionary measure to keep the public, court users and staff safe.  Crognali said anyone who has received a summons for jury duty for an upcoming trial should not attend court. Ontario now has 60 confirmed cases of COVID-19. Here's what you need to know However, she said jury trials already underway will continue.  "The Ministry of the Attorney General continues to monitor the evolving situation on COVID-19 and we will continue working with the [Superior Court of Justice] and other partners on preparedness planning for the justice sector," Crognali wrote in a news release. The number of COVID-19 cases inOntario jumped dramatically on Thursday morning, with health officials confirming 17 new cases in Toronto, Peel, Waterloo and Halton. Five of the total 59 cases have been resolved. Ontario Superior Court of Justice <a href="https://twitter.com/SCJOntario_en?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@SCJOntario_en</a> has suspended jury selection for future trials at this time. Jury panels for upcoming matters are being directed not to attend court. Jury trials currently in progress will continue, unless the trial judge orders otherwise.&mdash;@SCJOntario_en CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now