Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics COVID-19 outbreak: 'Think twice' before taking a cruise, top health official warns Canada's chief public health officer is warning travellers, especially the elderly and those with fragile health, to reconsider going on cruises after cases of the coronavirus were confirmed on a cruise ship which has Canadians on board.  Social Sharing Infections 'spread easily' on ships, says Canada's chief public health officer Peter Zimonjic · CBC News · Posted: Mar 06, 2020 6:45 PM ET | Last Updated: March 23, 2020 The Grand Princess cruise ship arrives from Hawaii in San Francisco. After 21 people on board tested positive for the coronavirus, it will be moved to a non-commercial port where all 3,500 passengers and crew will be tested. (Scott Strazzante/The Associated Press/San Francisco Chronicle) comments Canada's chief public health officer is warning travellers, especially the elderly and those with fragile health, to reconsider going on cruises after cases of the coronavirus were confirmed on a cruise ship which has Canadians on board.  "Think twice about going on cruise ships," said Dr. Theresa Tam on Friday, noting they "present environments where COVID-19 can spread easily given close contacts between passengers and crew for significant periods of time." Tam said that even if people on a cruise do not contract the virus they could be quarantined by destination countries for extended periods of time, increasing the risk of infection.  State officials on Wednesday quarantined the Grand Princess cruise ship off the coast of California over fears of a possible outbreak. There are some 235 Canadians among the 3,500 passengers and crew on board. According to a statement from the cruise line, fewer than 100 guests and crew members were initially identified for testing by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Test kits were delivered by air to the ship Thursday. On Friday, U.S. Vice-President Mike Pence said that so far 46 people have been tested and 21 came back positive; 19 crew and two passengers. It remains unclear if any Canadians tested positive.  Pence said that the Grand Princess will be moved to a non-commercial port where all 3,500 people on board will be tested.  Number of COVID-19 cases surpasses 100,000 worldwide Trudeau says government will do 'everything necessary' to protect Canadians from COVID-19 Support coming for Canadians quarantined due to coronavirus, finance minister says The ship was quarantined after a traveller from its previous voyage — a Feb. 11-21 trip to Hawaii — died of COVID-19 and at least two others became infected. Tam said there were 260 Canadians aboard that voyage and that the Public Health Agency of Canada has their names. That list, Tam said, was passed to provincial health authorities who are following up with those who have returned home.  Tam also said that so far three of Canada's 54 confirmed or presumptive cases of coronavirus were travellers on Grand Princess' trip to Hawaii.  Another cruise ship, the Diamond Princess, was quarantined by Japanese officials last month because of a coronavirus outbreak. A passenger on a third ship, the Westerdam, tested positive after the vessel docked in Cambodia. Canadians being tested More than 4,500 people have been tested for the virus across Canada. Tam said that all provinces and territories are fully equipped to continue testing and additional help is available from the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg.  With more than 100,000 cases reported in more than 90 countries, and the situation continuing to change daily, Tam said all March Break travellers should regularly check the federal government's travel advisory for their destination country because information on destination countries is constantly changing.  "With so many countries reporting cases of COVID-19, all travellers have to be very vigilant in closely monitoring their health for 14 days after entering Canada. At the first sign of even mild symptoms; stay home," Tam said.  If those symptoms develop, Tam says that people should call their local Public Health Office so they can determine if testing for the virus is required.    ABOUT THE AUTHOR Peter Zimonjic Senior Writer Peter Zimonjic has worked as a reporter and columnist in London, England, for the Daily Mail, Sunday Times and Daily Telegraph and in Canada for Sun Media and the Ottawa Citizen. He is the Author of Into The Darkness: An Account of 7/7, published by Random House. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Trudeau says government will do 'everything necessary' to protect Canadians from COVID-19 Number of COVID-19 cases surpasses 100,000 worldwide Support coming for Canadians quarantined due to coronavirus, finance minister says External Links Provincial Public Health Authority phone numbers Travel Advice and Advisories Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now