Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Cutting off North Korea's oil supply would be seen as act of war, Russia says The delivery of oil and oil products to North Korea should not be reduced, Moscow's ambassador to Pyongyang says in a report by RIA news agency, adding that a total end to deliveries would be interpreted by Pyongyang as an act of war. Social Sharing Current quotas are 'drop in the ocean for a country of 25 million,' ambassador is quoted as saying Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jan 31, 2018 10:56 AM ET | Last Updated: January 31, 2018 Crew aboard the Lighthouse Winmore, a Hong Kong-flagged ship, were interviewed by South Korean authorities for allegedly violating UN sanctions by transferring oil to a North Korean vessel in October, officials say. (Hyung Min-woo/Yonhap via Associated Press) The delivery of oil and oil products to North Korea should not be reduced, Moscow's ambassador to Pyongyang was cited as saying by RIA news agency on Wednesday, adding that a total end to deliveries would be interpreted by Pyongyang as an act of war. The UN and United States have introduced a wave of sanctions aimed at curbing North Korea's development of nuclear weapons, including by seeking to reduce its access to crude oil and refined petroleum products. "We can't lower deliveries any further," Russia's envoy to Pyongyang, Alexander Matzegora, was quoted by RIA as saying in an interview. North, South Korea agree to further talks aimed at easing tensions North Korean hockey players cross into South for 1st joint Olympic team Quotas set by the UN allow for around 540,000 tonnes of crude oil a year to be delivered to North Korea from China, and over 60,000 tonnes of oil products from Russia, China and other countries. That's "a drop in the ocean for a country of 25 million people," Matzegora was quoted as saying. Shortages would lead to serious humanitarian problems, he said, adding: "Official representatives of Pyongyang have made it clear that a blockade would be interpreted by North Korea as a declaration of war, with all the subsequent consequences." Ratcheting up sanctions Last week, the United States imposed further sanctions on North Korea, including on its crude oil ministry. In his first annual state of the union speech to the U.S. Congress on Tuesday, President Donald Trump vowed to keep up the pressure on North Korea to prevent it from developing missiles that could threaten the United States. North Korea on Saturday condemned the latest U.S. sanctions, and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov said Russia had no obligation to carry out sanctions produced by the U.S. An Olympic-sized 'window of opportunity' — or a North Korean ruse? If you're going to blame a cyberattack on North Korea, you'd better show your work The ambassador also denied charges by Washington that Moscow, in contravention of UN sanctions, was allowing Pyongyang to use Russian ports for transporting coal. "We double checked evidence. We found that the ships mentioned did not enter our ports, or if they did, then they were carrying cargo that had nothing to do with North Korea," he was quoted as saying. Reuters reported earlier that North Korea had shipped coal to Russia last year and it was then delivered to South Korea and Japan in a likely violation of UN sanctions. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories North, South Korea agree to further talks aimed at easing tensions North Korean hockey players cross into South for 1st joint Olympic team An Olympic-sized 'window of opportunity' — or a North Korean ruse? If you're going to blame a cyberattack on North Korea, you'd better show your work Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now