Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Daring defection of North Korean soldier captured in dramatic video North Korea's actions during a defector's escape at the Panmunjom border village earlier this month violated the armistice agreement ending the Korean War, a spokesperson for the UN command told reporters Wednesday as video of the attempt was released. Social Sharing UN officials say rules were broken by North Korean soldiers who shot at fleeing comrade Foster Klug · The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 22, 2017 12:05 PM ET | Last Updated: November 22, 2017 Dramatic video shows defecting North Korean soldier running for border News3 years ago 1:39Man makes it to South Korea, but is shot and wounded by pursuing border guards 1:39 It's 3:11 p.m. on a cold, grey day on the North Korean side of the most heavily armed border in the world, and a lone soldier is racing toward freedom. His dark olive-green jeep speeds down a straight, tree-lined road, past drab, barren fields and, headlights shining, across the replacement for the Bridge of No Return, which was used for prisoner exchanges during the Korean War. The shock of soldiers watching the jeep rush by on Nov. 13 is palpable from the video released Wednesday, and no wonder: They're beginning to realize that one of their comrades is defecting to the South. They sprint after him. The jeep slows and turns at a monument to North Korean founder Kim Il-sung, the staging point for North Korean tours of the area. The border is near, South Korea just beyond it. North Korean soldier critically wounded while crossing DMZ in hail of bullets 'The lifestyle is brutal': North Korean defectors take risky journey out and fear for family left behind Four North Korean soldiers, weapons in their hands, race by the blue huts that straddle the line and are familiar to anyone who has toured the only spot on the border where North and South Korean soldiers face off within spitting distance of each other. There are no tourists this day. Motionless in a pile of leaves Right at the line that divides North from South, the defector crashes the jeep into a ditch. Seconds pass as he tries in vain to gun the vehicle out of the gully before leaping out and sprinting into the South. He kicks up leaves, ducking below a tree branch just as the North Korean soldiers skid into view. Muzzles flash. The North Korean soldiers, one of whom drops flat into the leaves, fire at the defector at close range with handguns and AK-47 assault rifles — about 40 rounds, the South says. This combination of images made from Nov. 13, 2017, surveillance video released by the United Nations Command shows a North Korean soldier running from a jeep and then shot by North Korean soldiers in Panmunjom, North Korea, before collapsing across the border in South Korea. (UN Command via AP) Suddenly, two of the North Koreans run away while the soldier in the leaves jumps up and dashes across the dividing line into South Korean territory before stopping, turning on his heels and sprinting back to the northern side after his comrades. The defector falls stretched out and unmoving in a pile of leaves against a small wall on the South Korean side. The entire sequence, from the first appearance of the jeep to the soldier's frenzied crossing, lasts four minutes. It unfolded in the Joint Security Area, which is overseen by both the American-led UN Command and North Korea and lies inside the four-kilometre-wide demilitarized zone that has been the de facto border between the Koreas since the war. Forty minutes later, the video has switched to infrared to show the heat signatures of two South Korean soldiers as they crawl on their hands and knees, using a wall as cover, toward the prone defector. They grab hold of the defector and drag him to safety. Not far away, heavily armed North Korean troops begin to gather near the Kim Il-sung monument. For the moment, the border is quiet again. Col. Chad Carroll, a spokesperson for the UN command, shows the CCTV footage of a North Korean soldier's defection during a news conference at the defence ministry in Seoul on Wednesday. (Ahn Young-joon/Associated Press) Surprisingly, North and South Korean soldiers didn't exchange fire during the shooting, the first in the area in more than three decades. The bullets went in only one direction. The defection, subsequent surgeries and slow recovery of the soldier have riveted South Korea. But his escape is a huge embarrassment for the North, which claims all defections are the result of rival Seoul kidnapping or enticing North Koreans. Pyongyang has said nothing about the defection so far. Significant improvement in his condition North Korea's actions during the defector's escape at the Panmunjom border village violated the armistice agreement ending the Korean War because North Korean soldiers fired across and physically crossed the border in pursuit of the soldier, U.S. Col. Chad Carroll, a spokesperson for the UN command, told reporters in a live TV briefing Wednesday. A UN Command statement said a meeting had been requested with the North's military to discuss the violations. After undergoing two surgeries last week to repair internal organ damage and other injuries, the soldier has regained consciousness and is no longer relying on a breathing machine. His doctor said Wednesday he is enjoying watching American movies and shows and listening to South Korean pop songs. "His condition has become much better since yesterday. We've turned on the TV for him since yesterday," doctor Lee Cook-jong told reporters. "He said it was so painful when he was shot by bullets, but that he doesn't feel pain now," he said. Doctors plan to keep him in an intensive care unit for at least several more days to guard against possible infection, hospital official Shin Mi-jeong said. While treating the wounds, surgeons earlier removed dozens of parasites from the soldier's ruptured small intestine, including presumed roundworms that were as long as 27 centimetres, which may reflect poor nutrition and health in North Korea's military. The soldier is 5-7" tall but weighs just 132 pounds. About 30,000 North Koreans have fled to South Korea, mostly across the porous border with China, since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War. Now add one more to that tally — a man in uniform, fleeing gunfire toward a new life one overcast afternoon across the world's most uneasy border. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Trump declares North Korea a state sponsor of terrorism North Korea calls Trump's Asia tour 'a warmonger's trip' North Korea calls diplomat defector 'human scum' Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now