Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Health Death toll from new coronavirus outbreak in China reaches 17 The death toll from China's new respiratory virus in Hubei province has risen to 17 and the total number of confirmed cases has risen further, state television reported on Wednesday, citing the provincial government. Social Sharing Number of confirmed cases climbs to more than 570, health officials say The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 22, 2020 5:33 AM ET | Last Updated: January 23, 2020 Travellers wear face masks as they walk outside of the Beijing Railway Station in Beijing, on Monday. The outbreak coincides with the country's busiest travel period, as millions board trains and planes for the Lunar New Year holidays. (Mark Schiefelbein/The Associated Press) comments The death toll from China's new respiratory virus in Hubei province has risen to 17 and the total number of confirmed cases has risen further, state television reported on Wednesday, citing the provincial government. The number of new cases has risen sharply in China, the centre of the outbreak. According to Chinese state television, there were more than 570 confirmed cases as of Wednesday. China discouraged public gatherings in Hubei province, where the virus emerged last month, and tightened containment measures in hospitals, while the World Health Organization (WHO) was due to hold an emergency meeting to determine whether the outbreak constituted a global health emergency. "There has already been human-to-human transmission and infection of medical workers," Li said at a news conference with health experts. "Evidence has shown that the disease has been transmitted through the respiratory tract and there is the possibility of viral mutation." The illness comes from a newly identified type of coronavirus, a family of viruses that can cause the common cold as well as more serious illnesses such as the SARS outbreak that spread from China to more than a dozen countries in 2002-2003 and killed about 800 people. Symptoms of the virus, which can cause pneumonia, include fever, coughing and difficulty breathing. There is no vaccine for the virus, which can be passed from person to person. Fifteen medical personnel are among those infected in China. WATCH: 'Very high' probability that Canada will see coronavirus, says Toronto respirologist 'Very high' probability that Canada will see coronavirus, says Toronto respirologist Health1 year ago 7:13Dr. Samir Gupta says mass travel has jumped since SARS but the global health response is much better now.    7:13 Hong Kong quarantined a 39-year-old man on Wednesday after the city's first preliminary positive result in a test for the new flu-like coronavirus found in an outbreak in central mainland China, authorities said. The tourist from Wuhan came to Hong Kong on Tuesday via high-speed rail from nearby Shenzhen and was detected as having fever at the border. He was in stable condition in an isolation ward at Princess Margaret Hospital, Health Minister Sophia Chan said. Carrie Lam, Hong Kong's leader, said on Wednesday at the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, that the rapid flow of people across the Hong Kong border makes the city highly vulnerable to the coronavirus outbreak.  "The rise in the mobility of the public has objectively increased the risk of the epidemic spreading and the difficulty of prevention and control," the National Health Commission vice-minister told reporters. LISTEN | Lessons learned in SARS outbreak will help global response to coronavirus There was evidence that the virus was being spread through "respiratory transmission," Li said. And, the director-general of China's Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, Gao Fu, said virus was adapting and mutating, underscoring the challenges for health authorities. The Chinese government has provided updates on the number of cases in a bid to head off panic, as hundreds of millions of people prepare to travel at home and abroad for Lunar New Year celebrations starting this week. Gao said officials are working on the assumption that the outbreak resulted from human exposure to wild animals being sold illegally at a food market in Wuhan and that the virus is mutating. Mutations can make the virus spread faster or make people sicker. Screening measures stepped up Thailand authorities Wednesday confirmed four cases, a Thai national and three Chinese visitors. Japan, South Korea, the United States and Taiwan have all reported one case each. All of the illnesses were of people from Wuhan or who recently had traveled there. "The situation is under control here," Thailand Public Health Minister Anutin Charnvirakul told reporters, saying there are no reports of the infection spreading to others. "We checked all of them: taxi drivers, people who wheeled the wheelchairs for the patients, doctors and nurses who worked around them." Macao, a former Portuguese colony that is a semi-autonomous Chinese city, reported one case Wednesday. WATCH: Emerging disease specialist optimistic that coronavirus can be contained   Emerging disease specialist optimistic that coronavirus can be contained   World1 year ago 6:46Dr. Peter Daszak says a decision expected from the WHO on whether the outbreak is global health crisis will help shape the response 6:46 Travel agencies that organize trips to North Korea say the country has banned foreign tourists because of the outbreak. Most tourists to North Korea are either Chinese or travel to the country through neighbouring China. North Korea also closed its borders in 2003 during the SARS scare. Other countries have also stepped up screening measures for travellers from China, especially those arriving from Wuhan. Worries have been heightened by the coming of the Lunar New Year holiday rush. FRONT BURNERAs Wuhan virus spreads, fears about pandemic readiness Stock markets down on growing concern about coronavirus in China U.S. officials said they will begin screening travellers coming from Wuhan at three major airports — New York City's JFK International Airport, San Francisco International Airport and Los Angeles International Airport. While in Canada, Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) told CBC News that it will be "implementing additional measures" in the coming week, including warning signs in English, French and simplified Chinese at airports in Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal. On the kiosks where people fill in questions, they'll be asked if they've been in an area affected by the outbreak within the last 14 days.  In this photo released by China's Xinhua News Agency, a medical worker takes a passenger's temperature at Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan in southern China's Hubei province on Wednesday. (Xiao Yijiu/Xinhua via The Associated Press) Dr. Theresa Tam, Canada's chief public health officer, told reporters that there are no reported cases of this new coronavirus in Canada and the agency is not aware of any cases involving Canadians overseas. There were three travellers from Wuhan who were investigated and ruled out in the last week, Tam said.  "It is important to take this seriously, and be vigilant and be prepared. But I don't think there's reason for us to panic or be overly concerned," Tam said. Disease 'will continue to develop' Officials said it was too early to compare the new virus with SARS or MERS, or Middle East respiratory syndrome, in terms of how lethal it might be. They attributed the spike in new cases to improvements in detection and monitoring. Jiao Yahui, a health commission official, said "the disease will continue to develop. It has developed different features compared with the early stage, and the prevention and precautionary measures need to change accordingly." WATCH: Should Canadians be worried about the coronavirus? Should Canadians be worried about the coronavirus? The National1 year ago 9:54With the first confirmed case in North America, our panel of doctors discuss whether Canadians should be worried about the new coronavirus and what they should be doing to protect themselves. 9:54 Dr. David Heymann, who headed WHO's global response to SARS in 2003, said the new virus appears dangerous to older people with other health conditions, but doesn't look nearly as infectious as SARS. "It looks like it doesn't transmit through the air very easily and probably transmits through close contact," he said. "That was not the case with SARS." Health officials confirmed earlier this week that the disease can be spread between humans after finding two infected people in Guangdong province in southern China who had not been to Wuhan. Fifteen medical workers also tested positive for the virus, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission has said. Fourteen of them, one doctor and 13 nurses, were infected by a patient who had been hospitalized for neurosurgery but also had the coronavirus. With files from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories FRONT BURNER As Wuhan virus spreads, fears about pandemic readiness How Canadian hospitals and airports are preparing for new coronavirus Key things to watch for in the coronavirus outbreak U.S. officials confirm first U.S. case of China coronavirus Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now