Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto·Analysis Debate proves Tanya Granic Allen will be a factor in Ontario PC leadership race While the big-name candidates in the Ontario PC leadership played it safe during the first debate of the contest, they let Tanya Granic Allen steal the show. Social Sharing Allen promises to speak for people who oppose 'the Kathleen Wynne sex-ed agenda' Mike Crawley · CBC News · Posted: Feb 16, 2018 6:00 AM ET | Last Updated: February 16, 2018 Ontario PC leadership candidate Tanya Granic Allen. (Chris Young/Canadian Press) While the big-name candidates in the Ontario PC leadership played it safe during the first debate of the contest, they let Tanya Granic Allen steal the show. Granic Allen put in by far the feistiest performance of the hour-long televised event, taking shots at former leader Patrick Brown, calling out "corruption" in the PC party and showing no fear of jumping into any topic.    Three key moments from the PC leadership debate Sex ed curriculum at issue in PC leadership race "I'm here to be a grassroots voice for... people who are opposed to the Kathleen Wynne sex-ed agenda, pro-lifers, free-speech advocates and other social conservatives," declared Granic Allen as the debate began. In the hour that followed, she more than held her own against Christine Elliott, Doug Ford and Caroline Mulroney, firmly establishing herself as a factor in the race.  It's a sign that social conservatives intend to have an influence over who becomes the next PC leader, and possibly the next premier.   Granic Allen's support base cannot be insignificant: she said she was able to generate the $100,000 entry fee to the contest through donations. She is president of the group Parents As First Educators, which claims 80,000 members. The group describes itself as a "leader in the fight" against a "radical sex-ed curriculum in Ontario."  Ontario Conservative party leadership candidates Tanya Granic Allen, left to right, Christine Elliott, Doug Ford and Caroline Mulroney are seen in TVO studios in Toronto on Thursday, February 15, 2018 following a televised debate. (Chris Young/Canadian Press) Her candidacy means that sex-ed and other social conservative issues are now high on the agenda among the Progressive Conservatives as the party decides who should lead it into the spring election campaign. Brown won the 2015 leadership race in part by courting social conservatives, but then tried to steer the party in a different direction. That about-face taught Granic Allen a lesson, she said in a letter to supporters last week, aiming to raise money to run for the leadership.  Sex-ed opponent joins Ontario PC leadership race "When it comes to these leadership contests, we are far better off supporting candidates who we can trust and who will speak out on our issues," she wrote. "We have to make sure the social conservative voice is being respected."  Granic Allen insists she is not a single-issue candidate. But during the debate she kept raising sex ed, even when moderator Steve Paikin tried to steer her toward other aspects of the school system. Caroline Mulroney supporters gather outside TVO studios in Toronto ahead of the televised debate between the four Ontario PC party leadership candidates. (Chris Young/Canadian Press) "I have to talk about the sex ed, it's my number one priority," she said.  "What else in education today needs improving that you've got your eye on?" asked Paikin. "Sex ed isn't going to improve math scores, so tell me about something else." New information raises questions about allegations against Brown Granic Allen's reply: "Maybe they will focus more on math if they're not talking about anal sex in the classroom." None of the candidates challenged her directly on that assertion.  Rather, Ford and Elliott agreed that they, too, have problems with the sex-ed reforms.   Ontario PC leadership candidate Doug Ford. (Chris Young/Canadian Press) "I believe in teaching your kids at home first when it comes to this," said Ford, slamming "the Liberal ideology that's trying to be shoved down our throats with the sex-ed curriculum." Elliott questioned the "age appropriateness" of some of the curriculum. "Maybe something that children are learning in Grade 2 now, they should learn in Grade 8 or 9 or 10."  She also claimed the curriculum "doesn't cover ... cyberbullying and sexting and all those things related to technology." In fact, both are specifically mentioned in the elementary and secondary health and phys-ed curricula.   Mulroney is the only candidate opposed to scrapping the sex-ed reforms. "I commit to consulting parents on all things that affect families and children, but I am not going to reopen the curriculum," said Mulroney, who identified herself as Roman Catholic during the debate. Ontario PC leadership candidate Christine Elliott (Chris Young/Canadian Press) Granic Allen made her presence felt throughout the hour. She dismissed the federal carbon tax as a "cockamamie idea" hatched by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. She said the PC party's campaign platform, called the People's Guarantee, "died the day Patrick Brown resigned." She wrapped by slamming Ontario's ban on so-called conversion therapy, aimed at changing the sexual orientation or gender identity of young people.   Given the ranked-ballot system the PCs are using, the three big-name candidates will be reluctant to attack Granic Allen: if she is knocked off the ballot first, Mulroney, Ford and Elliott will all hope to be her supporters' number-two choice. And that could drive the Ontario PC party further toward a social conservatism that Patrick Brown rejected.  ABOUT THE AUTHOR Mike Crawley Provincial Affairs Reporter Mike Crawley is provincial affairs reporter in Ontario for CBC News. He has won awards for his reporting on the eHealth spending scandal and flaws in Ontario's welfare-payment computer system. Before joining the CBC in 2005, Mike filed stories from 19 countries in Africa as a freelance journalist and worked as a newspaper reporter in B.C. Twitter @CBCQueensPark CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories New information raises questions about allegations against Patrick Brown Recap Ontario PC leadership candidates talk sex ed, tax cuts in 1st debate Ontario sex-ed opponent Tanya Granic Allen joins PC leadership race PODCAST The Pollcast: Breaking down the Ontario PC leadership race Analysis Why Caroline Mulroney has the most at stake in PC leadership debate Ontario sex ed curriculum at issue in PC leadership race Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now