Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Destruction of Rohingya villages continues: Human Rights Watch Satellite imagery shows that Rohingya villages in Myanmar continued to be destroyed even as Myanmar and Bangladesh signed an agreement last month to return refugees from the ethnic Muslim minority who had fled their country amid violence, Human Rights Watch said Monday. Social Sharing Satellite images show villages burned after Myanmar and Bangladesh signed safe return agreement The Associated Press · Posted: Dec 18, 2017 4:02 AM ET | Last Updated: December 18, 2017 A new report from Human Rights Watch released Monday said buildings were destroyed in 40 Rohingya villages in October and November, increasing the total to 354 villages that have been partially or completely destroyed since Aug. 25. (Alkis Konstantinidis/Reuters) Satellite imagery shows that Rohingya villages in Myanmar continued to be destroyed even as Myanmar and Bangladesh signed an agreement last month to return refugees from the ethnic Muslim minority who had fled their country amid violence, Human Rights Watch said Monday. The New York-based rights group said buildings were destroyed in 40 villages in northern Rakhine state in October and November, increasing the total to 354 villages that have been partially or completely destroyed since Aug. 25. More than 630,000 Rohingya have fled from Myanmar into Bangladesh since Aug. 25, when Myanmar's army began what it called "clearance operations" following an attack on police posts by a group of Rohingya insurgents. Refugees arriving in Bangladesh said their homes were set on fire by soldiers and Buddhist mobs, and some reported being shot at by security forces. In late November, Myanmar and Bangladesh signed an agreement covering the return of Rohingya who fled across their mutual border to escape the violence in Rakhine. "Satellite imagery confirms that dozens of buildings were burned the same week" the agreement was signed, Human Right Watch said in a statement. This combination of satellite images show four villages in Maungdaw township, northern Rakhine state, Myanmar, on Nov. 25 (top) and Dec. 2 (bottom). Satellite imagery shows that Rohingya villages in Myanmar continued to be destroyed even as Myanmar and Bangladesh signed an agreement last month to return refugees from the ethnic Muslim minority who had fled their country amid violence, Human Rights Watch said Monday. (Human Rights Watch/Digital Globe/Associated Press) "The Burmese army's destruction of Rohingya villages within days of signing a refugee repatriation agreement with Bangladesh shows that commitments to safe returns were just a public relations stunt," said Brad Adams, Human Rights Watch's Asia director. "The satellite imagery shows what the Burmese army denies: that Rohingya villages continue to be destroyed. Burmese government pledges to ensure the safety of returning Rohingya cannot be taken seriously." Myanmar was formerly known as Burma. Over 6,700 Rohingya killed in a single month, Doctors Without Borders estimates Myanmar, Bangladesh sign deal for potential return of displaced Rohingya Muslims Zaw Htay, Myanmar's government spokesman, said, "I cannot give comment yet because I have not seen the statement on the satellite images yet." Sann Win, a border guard police officer in northern Rakhine, said by phone Monday that "there was no burning of any villagers' homes in October and November." In September, Myanmar's government said more than 6,800 homes had been destroyed in the wave of violence, with all but about 200 of them belonging to Rohingya villagers. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Myanmar, Bangladesh sign deal for potential return of displaced Rohingya Muslims Over 6,700 Rohingya killed in a single month, Doctors Without Borders estimates Myanmar journalists to protest over arrest of Reuters reporters Myanmar's Suu Kyi: Instability leads to illegal migration, terrorism Myanmar security forces may be guilty of genocide against Rohingya: UN Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now