Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Headlines Donna Skelly wins Ward 7 byelection to be newest city councillor The former CHCH reporter became the newest member of city council in a close race on Monday. Social Sharing 22 people ran to replace Scott Duvall in a race with 24.35 per cent voter turnout Samantha Craggs · CBC News · Posted: Mar 21, 2016 7:01 PM ET | Last Updated: March 22, 2016 Donna Skelly celebrates her Ward 7 byelection win with her parents, Ken and Marion Smith. Skelly won a crowded heat of 22 candidates. (Samantha Craggs/CBC) comments Former CHCH TV reporter and on-air personality Donna Skelly was elected Monday by a margin of fewer than 100 votes to represent Ward 7 on Hamilton Mountain. And in an area with a strong NDP base, the result was a left-wing fear that came true — a candidate with Conservative ties became Hamilton's newest city councillor. With 1,967 votes, she brushed past John-Paul Danko, who had 1,875. And notably, Uzma Qureshi, who former councillor Scott Duvall and other NDPers aggressively endorsed, came third with 1,521 votes. I'm not going to just take the popular side of things. If it offends people or if it ruffles some feathers, so be it.- Donna Skelly, Ward 7 councillor-elect Duvall, who is an NDP MP for Hamilton Mountain, and Monique Taylor, the Mountain's NDP MPP, had penned a letter to voters just before Monday's vote warning that a right-leaning councillor could win the byelection if left-leaning voters split their vote. Despite other candidates with NDP support in the race, Duvall and Taylor encouraged a strategic vote for Qureshi. "A split vote will put our tradition in jeopardy," the letter warned. Ward 7 candidates Doug Farraway and Glenn Murphy watch the results come in at city hall. (Samantha Craggs/CBC) "It creates a path for other candidates with ties to the Conservative party to come up the middle and win where they wouldn't be able to otherwise." 2 NDP politicians urge strategic voting in final hours of Ward 7 campaign 5 reasons you should care who wins the Ward 7 byelection on Monday With Skelly's win, that materialized. The former CHCH reporter has run for the Conservatives twice. She came out ahead in a crowded field of 22 candidates. Voter turnout was 24.35 per cent, or 10,063 of 41,332 eligible voters. Skelly broke tradition on Monday, skipping the usual city hall stop where media and other politicians gathered. Instead, she stayed with supporters at the Mount Hamilton Legion. Skelly said that's not the only way she'll be different from other councillors. Donna Skelly hugs her campaign manager Grant MacLean after her Monday win in the Ward 7 byelection. Skelly won by fewer than 100 votes over the next place finisher, John-Paul Danko. (Samantha Craggs/CBC) She plans to make strengthening Concession Street and better transit in Ward 7 a priority. She said she's not afraid to be "politically incorrect" when expressing her views. "I'm not going to just take the popular side of things," she said. "If it offends people or if it ruffles some feathers, so be it. I think that's what people want in a city councillor." As an example, Skelly said social housing won't be a priority for her, and Ward 7 already has all it can manage. Skelly lives in Ward 8 right now, but said she's already looking for a new house in Ward 7. She will be sworn in on March 30. Other candidates were as follows: Robert Bolton Philip Bradshaw Shaun Burt Bob Charters Doug Farraway Tim Gordon Chelsey Heroux Luc Hetu Geraldine McMullen Glenn Murphy Paul Nagy Anthony Nicholl Jeanne Pacey Howard Rabb Mohammad Shahrouri Damin Starr Louis Vecchioni Robert Young Hans Zuriel ? CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis 5 reasons you should care who wins the Ward 7 byelection on Monday Ward 7 Byelection Do political endorsements in city council races matter to you? Ward 7 Byelection Poverty on the Mountain is unique — and so are its housing issues Ward 7 Byelection Call out fellow councillors when they put down other cultures: Myrie This ward has 22 candidates: How do you hold a debate? 13 people running in Ward 7 - and that's just the beginning Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now