Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Doug Ford talks to industry leaders about NAFTA, U.S. tariffs Ontario Premier-Designate Doug Ford met auto and steel industry representatives on Wednesday to discuss "critical" NAFTA talks, U.S. tariffs and how the province will encourage business competitiveness. Social Sharing Premier-designate says U.S. President Donald Trump's name-calling is not acceptable Muriel Draaisma · CBC News · Posted: Jun 13, 2018 2:03 PM ET | Last Updated: June 13, 2018 Doug Ford says his new government will encourage business competitiveness by taking a hard look at more than 380,000 regulations governing Ontario businesses. (CBC) Doug Ford, Ontario's premier-designate, met auto and steel industry representatives in Toronto on Wednesday to discuss "critical" NAFTA talks, U.S. tariffs and how the province can help keep businesses competitive. Ford said his transition team is closely watching the trade talks between Canada and the U.S. because jobs in Ontario are at risk. "The stakes are high," he told reporters. "Thousands of jobs rely on the outcome of these talks. Thousands of Ontario families are counting on us to defend our interests."  Canada's foreign affairs minister lands in Washington amid trade feud with Trump Ontario could feel the pain if Trump makes good on auto tariff threat — but no one knows how much it'll hurt On Thursday, Ford is set to meet with Canada's Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland, also a Toronto MP, and Canada's ambassador to the U.S., David MacNaughton, for a briefing on the NAFTA talks.  Ford said he'll be sharing the concerns of industry representatives he heard from today.  'We got quite the crew here,' Doug Ford told a large crowd of reporters in Toronto as he opened his news conference on Wednesday. (CBC) "We had a very productive discussion on how the tariffs will impact each and every one of them," Ford said.  Amid the tense talks over the future of the free trade agreement, the U.S. announced last month it's applying tariffs of 25 per cent on steel and 10 per cent on aluminum. Canada is countering the move by imposing duties of up to $16.6 billion worth of U.S. products. Name-calling not acceptable 'whatsoever' Ford also took aim at U.S. President Donald Trump, saying the name calling coming from Washington, via Twitter, "in these critical stages" is not acceptable "whatsoever." Trump called Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau "weak and dishonest" after the G7 summit in Quebec on Sunday, apparently angered over comments Trudeau made during a news conference when he objected to the American tariffs. "I think when it comes to the president, he's protecting the United States. Our job, my job personally, is to protect every single job in Ontario that is affected more than any other province," Ford said. "This is a lot higher than name-calling. This is about two great nations that live and work side-by-side." Ford repeated the Ontario government will stand "shoulder-to-shoulder" with Trudeau's government on international interests that affect the province and country. Ford focusing on tax cuts The incoming premier also vowed his government will encourage business competitiveness by taking a hard look at some 380,000 regulations that he says govern Ontario businesses.  Ontario Premier-Designate Doug Ford says his meeting with auto and steel industry representatives on Wednesday was productive. (CBC) But despite saying he'll stand together with the federal government on the trade relations with the U.S., Ford has said he plans to launch legal action against the federal carbon tax. He has also promised to lower corporate taxes, reduce hydro rates by 12 per cent, get rid of the cap-and-trade system. Asked about his relationship with the federal government, Ford responded:  "Are we going to have some differences internally within the family per se? I'm sure we'll have a few bumps. But when it comes to international trade and working with the United States and Mexico, make no mistake about it, we're going to stand side by side," he told a reporter. "As for your comment about the carbon tax, we have to be competitive." Industry representatives were pleased to hear that, he said. "They're confident that we're going to create an environment unlike we're ever seen before in this entire province, making sure we start being competitive, right off the hop." The Ontario Progressive Conservatives under Ford won a majority of 76 seats in the provincial election last Thursday. Ford said he will stand side by side with the federal government and do whatever it takes to resolve this NAFTA war, this economic war, with the US <a href="https://t.co/VbrCn71zvV">pic.twitter.com/VbrCn71zvV</a>&mdash;@fitzpatrick_m With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Canada's foreign affairs minister lands in Washington amid trade feud with Trump Ontario could feel the pain if Trump makes good on auto tariff threat — but no one knows how much it'll hurt Doug Ford's transition team lays groundwork for PC government, considers cabinet choices Analysis Doug Ford's PC government will move on these 5 promises quickly NDP's Andrea Horwath says she'll do her best to fight cuts at Queen's Park With Doug Ford, Ontario is in for 'rough and wild ride': Toronto councillor Here's how Doug Ford's political views measure up against the PC voters who elected him Analysis What's in store for Ottawa under Ontario's new PC government Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now