Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Doug Ford is officially ending Ontario's cap-and-trade plan, but what's next? Ontario Premier Doug Ford officially announces plans to kill the province’s cap-and-trade program, leaving unanswered questions about how much it will cost and whether the federal government will now levy its own carbon tax. Social Sharing Move opens door to federal government implementing its own carbon tax in Ontario John Rieti · CBC News · Posted: Jul 03, 2018 1:02 PM ET | Last Updated: July 3, 2018 Ontario Premier Doug Ford on Tuesday announced formal plans to end the province's cap-and-trade program, saying the measure was nothing more than a government cash grab that didn't help the environment. (Tijana Martin/Canadian Press) comments Ontario Premier Doug Ford officially announced plans Tuesday to end the province's cap-and-trade program, drawing scorn from the federal government which may soon implement its own carbon tax in the province. The PC Party won a majority government after campaigning on axing cap-and-trade, which forced large companies to buy allowances for their carbon emissions. Ford says in a new release that eliminating it will be the first step in lowering gas prices by 10 cents a litre and curbing other household costs. Doug Ford axes GreenON program that provided rebates for energy-conscious homeowners 'Irresponsible and reckless': Ontario Green Party leader pans Doug Ford's cuts Ford also took aim at carbon taxes in general, calling them "no more than government cash grabs that do nothing for the environment." "We are getting Ontario out of the carbon tax business," he said. It remains unclear how much exiting the cap-and-trade program will cost Ontario, which is part of a larger program with Quebec and California, and what will happen with the nearly $3 billion in credits that companies have already purchased. CBC Toronto requested that cost from the Ontario Ministry of Environment and Climate Change last week, but the request was referred to Ford's office. Ford's news release also said there will be an "orderly wind-down" of programs funded by cap-and-trade, including incentives for homeowners to make their homes more energy efficient and for motorists to switch to electric vehicles. Ford's statement says the government will decide on a case-by-case basis whether some initiatives previously funded by the program will be paid for using tax base revenue. Will Ottawa step in? A statement from the office of federal Environment Minister Catherine McKenna criticizes Ford's move. (Nathan Denette/Canadian Press) The change at Queen's Park will have major ramifications for the federal government, which plans to implement a carbon tax in provinces where there is none. On Tuesday afternoon, the federal government was already criticizing the change in direction at Queen's Park. "The Ontario government is making it clear that it is not interested in taking climate action, and is effectively withdrawing from Canada's national climate change plan," said a statement from the office of Environment Minister Catherine McKenna. ListenDoug Ford's vow to fight federal carbon tax part of concerted effort, prof says "Canadians expect us to protect the environment and grow our economy, and we are taking action." If Ottawa does put in a federal carbon tax, Ford has vowed to challenge it in court — a threat that aligns him with Saskatchewan's government. Environmental group warns of cost In Ontario, Ford's decision is drawing criticism from the opposition and environmental groups. "The cancellation of cap-and-trade is a bad idea for many reasons," said Environmental Defence's Keith Brooks in a statement. Brooks said cap-and-trade not only funds emissions-cutting programs — from social housing retrofits to cycling infrastructure — but is a system businesses have already invested in. "The Ontario government will need to find billions of dollars to buy back those permits, or risk being sued." Ford's statement does not address those concerns. Ford was sworn-in as Ontario's 26th premier last Friday. Currently, the government's website does not list contact information for the newly appointed minister of the environment or any other cabinet members. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'Irresponsible and reckless': Ontario Green Party leader pans Doug Ford's cuts 'Assault on green energy:' Industry slams Doug Ford's decision to cancel incentives Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now