Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Health Drug-resistant 'nightmare bacteria' pose growing threat, CDC says U.S. Centers for Disease Control reports a rise in bacteria with unusual resistance to antibiotics of last resort across the country last year. Social Sharing 'Essentially, we found nightmare bacteria in your backyard,' CDC official says The Associated Press · Posted: Apr 03, 2018 4:58 PM ET | Last Updated: April 3, 2018 In the first nine months of the year, more than 5,770 samples were tested for bacteria on the verge of being untreatable. (David Goldman/Associated Press) "Nightmare bacteria" with unusual resistance to antibiotics of last resort were found more than 200 times in the United States last year in a first-of-a-kind hunt to see how much of a threat these rare cases are becoming, health officials say.  That's more than they had expected to find, and the true number is probably higher because the effort involved only certain labs in each state, officials say. The problem mostly strikes people in hospitals and nursing homes who need IVs and other tubes that can get infected. In many cases, others in close contact with these patients also harboured the superbugs even though they weren't sick — a risk for further spread. Some of the sick patients had travelled for surgery or other health care to another country where drug-resistant germs are more common, and the superbug infections were discovered after they returned to the U.S. Superbug fight unites drug industry DAY 6An American woman just died from a superbug resistant to 26 different antibiotics "Essentially, we found nightmare bacteria in your backyard," said Dr. Anne Schuchat, principal deputy director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "These verge on untreatable infections" where the only option may be supportive care — fluids and sometimes machines to maintain life to give the patient a chance to recover, Schuchat said on Tuesday. The situation was described in a CDC report. Bugs and drugs are in a constant battle, as germs evolve to resist new and old antibiotics. About 2 million Americans get infections from antibiotic-resistant bacteria each year and 23,000 die, Schuchat said. Concern has been growing about a rise in bacteria resistant to all or most antibiotics. Last year, public health labs around the country were asked to watch for and quickly respond to cases of advanced antibiotic resistance, especially to some last-resort antibiotics called carbapenems. In the first nine months of the year, more than 5,770 samples were tested for these "nightmare bacteria," as CDC calls them, and one quarter were found to have genes that make them hard to treat and easy to share their resistance tricks with other types of bacteria. Of these, 221 had unusual genes that conferred resistance. The cases were scattered throughout 27 states. "Even in remote areas" this threat is real, because patients often transfer to and from other places for care, said Dr. Jay Butler, chief medical officer for the state of Alaska and past president of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials. Patients with colds get inappropriate antibiotics in nearly half of visits to doctors, study suggests Antibiotic alternatives: 'We kind of pride ourselves in my research group of doing the crazy stuff' Others in close contact with the infected patient then were tested, and 11 per cent were found to be carrying the same superbugs even though they were not sick. This gives the bugs more of a chance to spread. What to do? CDC suggests: Tell your doctors if you recently had health care in another country. Talk with them about preventing infections, taking care of chronic conditions to help avoid them, and getting vaccines to prevent them. Wash your hands regularly and keep cuts clean until healed. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Superbug fight unites drug industry DAY 6 An American woman just died from a superbug resistant to 26 different antibiotics Drug-resistant 'superbug gonorrhea' is emerging, WHO warns Stop using antibiotics in healthy farm animals, WHO warns 'The enemy of my enemy is my friend:' Couple turns to viruses to beat back superbug External Links Containing Unusual Resistance, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now