Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal Educators await details on François Legault's pre-kindergarten promise Critics question the CAQ's $311 million annual price tag for the program and whether it's achievable, given the shortage of space in many schools. Social Sharing The premier-designate says his plan to introduce pre-kindergarten will free up 50,000 daycare spots CBC News · Posted: Oct 03, 2018 8:16 AM ET | Last Updated: October 3, 2018 There are currently 300,000 children attending daycare in Quebec, but only 95,000 spaces in CPEs. (Josée Ducharme/Radio-Canada) comments Educators and the groups that represent them are anxiously awaiting changes coming to the province's education system.  Premier-designate François Legault has said improving Quebec's schools is one of his government's top priorities. The day after his party was elected, he reiterated his promise to renovate buildings and screen children for learning disabilities. "I want to put in place a plan to renovate our schools quickly," he told reporters on Tuesday, at his first news news conference since Coalition Avenir Québec won a resounding majority. "So we can offer our children beautiful schools as soon as possible." CAQ promises to free up 50,000 daycare spots by putting kids in preschool early Some of his most ambitious and controversial promises, including creating a pre-kindergarten for four-year-olds, involve the Education Ministry. He has said his pre-kindergarten plan will free-up 50,000 daycare spots. Critics question the CAQ's $311 million annual price tag for the program and whether it's achievable, given the shortage of space in many schools. A spokesperson for the organization that represents most early childhood education centres in the province said the organization has met with Legault to discuss the subject. "We actually offered him our full collaboration on these issues," said Marie-Claude Lemieux, public affairs director of the Association Québécoise des Centres de la Petite Enfance. Here are the priorities of Quebec's new CAQ government She supports Legault's promise to screen children for learning disabilities at four years old, but said daycare workers are also often able to identify issues, such as language problems, early and work with children individually. The organization is not opposed to pre-kindergarten, she said. Often new Quebecers might not be as comfortable sending their children to daycare as they would be to send them to school, she said, and that there are not enough CPE spots for every Quebec child. Quebec Premier-designate François Legault speaks to the media the day after after winning the provincial election Tuesday, October 2, 2018 in Quebec City. (Ryan Remiorz/Canadian Press) She said she's open to pre-kindergarten for four-year-olds, but would like to see government create additional spots in CPEs. There are currently 300,000 children attending daycare, but only 95,000 spaces in CPEs. "We need for the government to be more explicit for how they view the role that the CPEs can play, and if they are willing to open up more spaces in CPEs," she said. Lines of communication are open Russell Copeman, executive director of the Quebec English School Boards Association (QESBA), said Legault has been open to listening to the different stakeholders. "The lines of communication are open," he said. "We've been assured that there will be a meeting at the highest levels with the new government as soon as possible." CAQ unveils investments in education and health, promises not to increase taxes Copeman said there are studies that show adequately funded and well-thought-out pre-kindergartens help with child development and school success. He said QESBA will be keeping an eye on how the province plans to implement pre-kindergarten in smaller, more rural communities. "Some of those communities may need it the most. Some are very low-income areas," he said. "If pre-K is going to be rolled out, we need to see some flexibility to respond to these low-density, very small communities." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories CAQ promises to free up 50,000 daycare spots by putting kids in preschool early CAQ unveils investments in education and health, promises not to increase taxes Asylum seekers file human rights complaint over lack of access to Quebec subsidized daycare Here are the priorities of Quebec's new CAQ government Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now