Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Business EU to Trump: Stop threatening us with tariffs The European Union has called on U.S. President Donald Trump's administration to stop threatening it with tariffs on steel and aluminum, saying Thursday it is prepared to discuss new trade incentives. Social Sharing Trump gave the 28 EU countries a temporary exemption until June 1 The Associated Press · Posted: May 17, 2018 11:03 AM ET | Last Updated: May 17, 2018 French President Emmanuel Macron speaks during a media conference at an EU and Western Balkan heads of state summit in Sofia, Bulgaria on Thursday. (Darko Vojinovic/Associated Press) comments The European Union has called on U.S. President Donald Trump's administration to stop threatening it with tariffs on steel and aluminum, saying Thursday it is prepared to discuss new trade incentives. In March, Trump slapped tariffs of 25 per cent on steel imports and 10 per cent on imported aluminum, but granted the 28 EU countries a temporary exemption until June 1. He also temporarily exempted big steel producers Canada and Mexico, provided they agree to renegotiate a North American trade deal to his satisfaction. 'With friends like that …' EU's Tusk blasts Trump, U.S. as 'capricious' "It's Europe's economic sovereignty, and what we are demanding is that we are exempted without conditions or time limits," French President Emmanuel Macron said in Bulgaria, where EU leaders have gathered for a summit with Balkans countries. Convinced that the U.S. move breaks global trade rules, the EU has drawn up a list of "rebalancing" duties worth some 2.8 billion euros to impose on U.S. products if it is not permanently exempt. It has vowed not to negotiate under threat. "I don't think we have to consider this or that, when it contravenes the laws of international trade," Macron said. But he added: "We can improve things, in a peaceful setting." German Chancellor Angela Merkel echoed his remarks. "We have a common position; we want an unlimited exemption, but are then prepared to talk about how we can reciprocally reduce barriers for trade," she told reporters in the Bulgarian capital Sofia. Should the exemptions be dropped, the EU stands ready to deepen trans-Atlantic energy co-operation, notably on liquefied natural gas, improve reciprocal market access for industrial products and work together to reform the rules of the World Trade Organization. Trump postpones decision on imposing steel and aluminum tariffs on Canada to June 1 "The EU is even ready to talk about trade liberalization with our American friends but only if the U.S. decides an unlimited exemption from steel and aluminum tariffs," said EU Council President Donald Tusk after chairing the summit. The EU rejects Trump's assertion that the tariffs are needed for U.S. national security and sees them as protectionist measures designed to boost local businesses. Most EU countries are U.S. allies in NATO. Trump's approach to tariffs combined with his unilateral withdrawal from the Iran nuclear agreement are costing Europe time and money, and some leaders are weighing whether a new approach is needed. "The real geopolitical problem is when you have — not an unpredictable opponent or enemy — the problem is if your closest friend is unpredictable," Tusk said. "I can agree with President Trump when he says that unpredictability can be a very useful tool in politics. But only against enemies or opponents. Unpredictability is in my opinion the last thing we need when you are friends." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Trump postpones decision on imposing steel and aluminum tariffs on Canada to June 1 NAFTA's big sticking point: Significant gaps remain between U.S., Mexico on autos Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now