Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World EU will hit back if targeted for U.S. tariffs, official says A senior European Union official is warning that the 28-nation bloc will hit back if U.S. President Donald Trump takes trade measures against it. Social Sharing European market 'at least as big as the American one,' says EU budget commissioner? The Associated Press · Posted: Feb 04, 2018 7:12 AM ET | Last Updated: February 4, 2018 It appears Donald Trump's tariffs, imposed to protect U.S. businesses, could eventually be met with counter tariffs from the European Union. (Jae C. Hong/Associated Press) comments A senior European Union official is warning that the 28-nation bloc will hit back if U.S. President Donald Trump takes trade measures against it. EU budget commissioner Guenther Oettinger told Sunday's edition of Germany's Welt am Sonntag newspaper: "If European exporters have to pay tariffs, that will become a two-way street. Then U.S. exporters will have to pay tariffs here." EU budget commissioner Guenther Oettinger of Germany has warned the U.S. against imposing unfair trade measures. (Francois Lenoir/Reuters) Trump expressed his annoyance with EU trade policy a week ago, saying that it "may morph into something very big." The EU then said it stands ready to hit back "swiftly and appropriately" if Trump imposes unfair trade measures. Oettinger said: "Anyone who uses the instrument must know that we also have it. And the European market is at least as big as the American one." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Bombardier wins bid to overturn 292% tariffs at U.S. trade body Analysis Punitive Bombardier duties show Trump's trade plan all about protectionism Trump targets Canada's lumber with tariffs, dairy industry may be next Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now