Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Thunder Bay 'Everything is going in the right direction': Thunder Bay hospital provides update on COVID-19 cases Staff at the Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre (TBRHSC) are currently treating five people for COVID-19, two of whom are in the intensive care unit Social Sharing Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre treating 5 people with COVID-19, has 22 presumptive cases Olivia Levesque · CBC News · Posted: Apr 22, 2020 5:30 PM ET | Last Updated: April 22, 2020 Staff at the Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre are currently treating five people for COVID-19, two of whom are in the intensive care unit. Three patients are being treated in the COVID-19 isolation unit. (Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre) Staff at the Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre (TBRHSC) are currently treating five people for COVID-19, two of whom are in the intensive care unit. Dr. Stewart Kennedy, COVID-19 incident manager at the hospital, said the other three patients are being treated in the COVID-19 isolation unit. "We have 22 presumptive cases, which has been down from the past...all based on enhanced turn around time," Kennedy said on Wednesday. Kennedy said very few hospital staff members are off work due to exposure to the virus, and credits enhanced testing for the progress being made in keeping staff on the job. "Everything is going in the right direction, I think we would love, eventually, to start doing asymptomatic testing to look at the prevalence in the community," he said. Thunder Bay hospital increasing access to priority surgery  Thunder Bay District Health Unit confirms 4 new COVID-19 cases, 2 requiring hospital care CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now