Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal Families and businesses big winners in Quebec's mini-budget Premier François Legault used his first major economic statement to offer tax relief to large families and deliver more than $1 billion-worth of incentives to Quebec businesses. Social Sharing But opposition parties call out CAQ for offering only modest sums to seniors and climate change Jonathan Montpetit · CBC News · Posted: Dec 03, 2018 7:29 AM ET | Last Updated: December 3, 2018 Quebec Premier François Legault targeted families and seniors in Monday's economic update. (Jacques Boissinot/Canadian Press) comments Premier François Legault used his first major economic statement to offer tax relief to large families and deliver more than $1 billion-worth of incentives to Quebec businesses. But with only modest sums allotted to low-income seniors and environmental measures, opposition parties accused the new Coalition Avenir Québec government of waffling on key social issues. Speaking in front of a giant Quebec flag and a mixed crowd of families and seniors, Legault insisted Monday's economic statement was just the first step toward fulfilling his party's campaign promises. "We'll increase, in the coming years, the money we'll be able to give back to families and seniors," he said. He also talked of restoring "a balance" between services offered by the government and the tax burden faced by Quebecers. The centrepiece of Monday's mini-budget was a refundable tax credit for parents with two or three children.   Under reforms to the child assistance payment program, families will get an additional $500 per child, with cheques going out in April. In other words, a family of three, making less than $123,194, will get $1,000 more under what was formerly known as the child-assistance payment. Families with two children have to make less than $108,344 to be eligible. Quebec schools to be spared cuts during all 4 years of CAQ government, premier promises A proposed mine near a pristine water source is testing the CAQ's commitment to the environment Legault said the changes announced Monday correct an "absurdity" of the current system, which offered parents less money for their second and third child than their first. "It's failure to understand reality of families to think that your second or third child costs less than the first one," Legault said. "That seems pretty obvious." Making Quebec businesses more competitive The other showcase item of the mini-budget was a plan to provide tax incentives worth $1.6 billion over five years to boost the productivity of Quebec businesses. This will largely take the form of accelerated depreciation measures, aimed at encouraging companies to switch over to higher-performing technology and machinery. Capital expenditures, such as computer hardware and manufacturing equipment, will qualify (until 2024) for a 100 per cent depreciation rate. Quebec is following Ottawa's lead by trying to boost competition through productivity incentives, as opposed to reductions in the corporate tax rate, which is already among the lowest in North America. Quebec Finance Minister Éric Girard holds a copy of a document as he presents a financial update on Monday in Quebec City. (Jacques Boissinot/Canadian Press) But the province trails both Ontario and Canada in terms of business investments in machinery and equipment, a situation Legault called "shameful." "The gap hasn't moved much in the last 20 years, so we have to start working on it," the premier said. The mini-budget also outlines a plan to accelerate repayment of Quebec's debt. By the spring, Legault's government intends to take $8 billion from the Generations Fund to repay existing debts on financial markets. It is estimated that, by lowering interest payments, the repayment will free up $1.4 billion over five years. Big surplus, but little for services Finance Minister Éric Girard, who drafted the economic update, is forecasting Quebec will finish the 2018-2019 fiscal year with a surplus of $1.7 billion. Economic growth remains robust in the province, with estimated GDP growth at 2.5 per cent for 2018. The province's healthy fiscal situation had some asking why the incoming government wasn't offering more in terms of tax relief, which had been a central theme of the CAQ campaign. Though some seniors will get a retroactive tax break, the sum is relatively modest and its eligibility, limited. Quebecers over 70, making $20,000 or less, will qualify for a $200 tax rebate. That amount will be progressively reduced, disappearing for seniors making more than $26,500. Legault, moreover, had promised during the campaign to gradually return to a flat-rate for Quebec's daycare system. Quebec may fall short of its greenhouse gas reduction targets, François Legault suggests 'We are waiting for real action': Opposition MNAs demand Legault lay out plan to fight climate change But the current system was left largely intact, only offering a freeze on the current rates, which increase with family income. "Given Quebec's economic situation, Quebecers had the right to expect the government to honour its promises to reduce their tax burden and reinvest in services," said Carlos Leitão, the Liberals' finance critic and finance minister under the previous government. Quebec Liberal Opposition finance critic Carlos Leitao reacts to the government's financial update Monday, December 3, 2018 in Quebec City. Treasury board critic Gaetan Barrette, left, looks on. (Jacques Boissinot/Canadian Press) Girard defended not offering more generous tax cuts to Quebecers by pointing to lingering uncertainty over the current size of the surplus. "That's certainly something we'll look at in the next budget," he said of further tax relief. "But it wouldn't have been prudent to spend all our surplus at once." Little to ease climate change concerns The update will also do little to ease concerns about the CAQ's commitment to tackling climate change. It contains a nominal investment to keep afloat a government program that offers rebates for electric car purchases. Québec Solidaire, the leftist opposition party, was hoping for a bolder gesture, such as an immediate investment in public transit, to send a signal the government feels an urgency about meeting emissions targets. Québec Solidaire MNA Vincent Marissal says he wanted to see larger investments in measures to combat climate change. (Jonathan Montpetit/CBC) "An electric car, as good as it is, doesn't replace a bus, a train, or a tramway," said Vincent Marissal, the QS MNA for the Montreal riding of Rosemont. "We need more collective transit. A solo car is not the way to go." Legault deflected many of these criticisms by noting the update was a short-term spending plan. He promised the spring budget would have measures for two sectors largely absent in the mini-budget. "We'll talk a lot about education in the next budget. The priority of this government will be education," he said. "We'll also talk about health, and improving front-line services." ABOUT THE AUTHOR Jonathan Montpetit Journalist Jonathan Montpetit is a journalist with CBC Montreal. Follow him on Twitter @jonmontpetit CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Quebec schools to be spared cuts during all 4 years of CAQ government, premier promises A proposed mine near a pristine water source is testing the CAQ's commitment to the environment Quebec may fall short of its greenhouse gas reduction targets, François Legault suggests Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now