Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal Figure skating could help ease Korean tensions and Montreal played a role If the world manages to avoid nuclear war this year, a figure skating coach from Montreal may well have played a small role. Social Sharing North Korean figure skaters qualified for Olympic Games after training under Bruno Marcotte in Montreal Kalina Laframboise · CBC News · Posted: Jan 07, 2018 8:52 PM ET | Last Updated: January 8, 2018 Figure skaters Ryom Ok-tae and Kim Ju-sik of North Korea have qualified for the Olympic Winter Games. (The Associated Press) A figure skating coach from Montreal may have played a small role in easing tensions between the two Koreas after helping a pair of potential North Korean Olympians flourish. With North Korean leader Kim Jong-un's nuclear threats looming over the competition, the country is now reportedly considering sending two of its athletes, last minute, to the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. The figure skating pair Ryom Tae-ok and Kim Ju-sik spent the summer training in Montreal and are the only North Korean athletes who qualified for the Winter Olympics. The pair flourished under the watchful eye of Bruno Marcotte, the 43-year-old skating coach and former World Junior bronze medallist from Montreal. They all met at the World Figure Skating Championships last year. "They approached me and at first they just wanted some advice on what they should do to be a better team," Marcotte said. "But that led to an off-ice lift class."  More serious meetings about studying under Marcotte followed. Bruno Marcotte would love to see the pair attend the Olympics. (Simon Nakonechny/CBC) Canadian figure skater Meagan Duhamel, Marcotte's wife, is also competing at the Games in hopes of snagging her first Olympic gold medal. She was part of a silver medal-winning team in Sochi.  North Korea says likely to join Olympics in South: reports Following training with Marcotte and mastering choreography with the help of his sister Julie, they were able to secure a spot at the Games while skating to Quebec artist Ginette Reno's Je ne suis qu'une chanson in Germany last September. While there aren't any guarantees of Ryom and Kim being sent across the border to compete in South Korea, Marcotte said he would love if the pair could attend the Olympics. He said a lot of people focus on the politics of the situation and not the talent of these two skaters. "This is a good team. A team that earned the right [to compete]," Marcotte said. The world watches This weekend an International Olympic Committee representative for North Korea said the country will likely compete at the Games next month, according to Japanese media reports. Both South Korea and U.S. President Donald Trump have heralded North Korea's potential participation as a step forward in mending tense relations on the peninsula. Under his leadership, South Korean President Moon Jae-in has been pushing to build a better relationship with North Korea and invited the nation to participate in the Games. The two Koreas will hold a rare discussion at the border starting Tuesday, exactly one month before the Winter Olympics kick off on Feb. 9. Korean competitors became close in Montreal The Montreal coach has also played a role in bringing the two Koreas together in an unexpected fashion. While they were practising in Montreal, Ryom and Kim formed a friendship with their South Korean competitors who were also training with Marcotte. Alex Kang-chan Kam and Kim Kyu-eun, the South Korean skating pair, said they became close and exchanged food. South Korean figure skaters Kim Kyu-eun and Alex Kang-chan Kam also trained in Montreal last summer. (Reuters) "As we trained together for two months in Canada, we became close easily because we speak the same language," said Kam. "We rooted for each other and we said that we should meet in Pyeongchang." The pair also hope they will meet their counterparts next month at the Winter Games. "When I meet them again, I want to say 'It's good to see you after a long time,'" said Kim. "And I want to compete well against them as friendly rivals." With files from CBC's Simon Nakonechny, Radio-Canada, Reuters and the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories North Korea says likely to join Olympics in South: reports Trump takes credit for possibility of North and South Korea resuming talks Analysis Canada may have its best Olympic figure skating team ever North, South Korea agree to hold talks Tuesday, Seoul says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now