Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World First look at prototypes for Trump's border wall The U.S. government gave the media a first peek Wednesday at construction of prototypes for President Donald Trump's proposed border wall. Social Sharing Crews have 30 days to construct wall with Mexico in cordoned-off area of San Diego The Associated Press · Posted: Sep 28, 2017 12:23 PM ET | Last Updated: September 28, 2017 A Border Patrol agent walks with a Department of Homeland Security official as crews work on prototypes for a proposed border wall in front of the primary border structure separating Tijuana, Mexico, behind, and San Diego Wednesday, Sept. 27, 2017, in San Diego. The federal government is giving a first peek at construction of prototypes for President Donald Trump's proposed border wall, an area that is walled off from public viewing in a remote area of San Diego. (Gregory Bull/Associated Press) The U.S. government gave the media a first peek Wednesday at construction of prototypes for President Donald Trump's proposed border wall. Crews working on two of the eight prototypes moved dirt, with one of the crews also installing steel reinforcing bars before concrete is poured. Each crew gets only 18.2 square metres to work on their prototype, prompting some to do assembly work elsewhere before moving the structure to their designated position. Contractors have 30 days to finish.  The rectangular construction zone is fenced off from public viewing in a remote area of San Diego along the border with Mexico. 'The president is misleading the American public,' activist says News4 years ago 0:54U.S. contractors are building prototype walls along San Diego-Tijuana border 0:54 The models will be tested for the ability to withstand sustained drilling with power tools and to deter crossers with anti-climbing features. They also must be aesthetically pleasing from the north side. The government will consider the models to guide the proposed construction on the nearly 3,200 kilometre border with Mexico. Trump says he wants them to be see-through. Trump voters sticking with him — DACA deal or no deal, wall or no wall? CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Trump voters sticking with him — DACA deal or no deal, wall or no wall Analysis Harvey's destructive wake could cost Trump his border wall — and save his presidency Analysis Trump risks much more than a government shutdown if he makes good on wall threat Trump signals Mexico wall funding may wait several months for more pressing concerns Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now