Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Former Ontario PC leader Patrick Brown blasts accusers in new Facebook post Former Ontario Progressive Conservative Patrick Brown says on Facebook that sexual misconduct allegations against him contain details that he has found to be false and he will fight to clear his name. Social Sharing In a Facebook post, he says he has evidence that details of the allegations are false Muriel Draaisma · CBC News · Posted: Feb 11, 2018 12:25 PM ET | Last Updated: February 12, 2018 Former Ontario Progressive Conservative leader Patrick Brown says on Facebook that sexual misconduct allegations against him contain details that he has found to be false and he will fight to clear his name. (Peter Power/Canadian Press) Former Ontario Progressive Conservative leader Patrick Brown says on Facebook that sexual misconduct allegations against him contain details that he can prove are false and that he will continue to fight to clear his name. "No words can describe the hurt and pain suffered by me and my family," he writes in the Facebook post, published on Sunday morning.  "For my family, for my constituents, and for the citizens of Ontario. I will now fight for my name and reputation." Brown resigned as Ontario PC leader on Jan. 25 after the allegations by two women were made public. If Patrick Brown can clear his name, he can run for Ontario PCs: Elliott Former Ontario PC leader Patrick Brown calls allegations 'absolute lies' Brown says in the lengthy post that the two female accusers presented stories with details that he says he can prove are false.  The former Ontario PC leader answers questions posed by reporters. Brown was ousted by allegations of sexual misconduct and the Progressive Conservative Party is now scrambling to find a new leader. (CBC) He says the first accuser got a detail wrong in her story, in particular that the alleged incident occurred in a second-floor apartment bedroom, with the door closed. Brown says that at the time of the alleged occurrence, he lived in an open concept, ground-floor apartment that did not have an upstairs bedroom nor a door to any bedroom in the residence.  Brown goes on to suggest that one of the CTV journalists who first reported the allegations against him had personal ties to one of the accusers. "Interestingly, I understand from the first accuser's Facebook and from people we both know that she was housemates with a CTV reporter," Brown adds. In regards to the second allegation, Brown says the woman tried to kiss him, not the other way around, and asserts he acted appropriately during the incident.  'No words can describe the hurt and pain suffered by me and my family,' Brown writes in a Facebook post, published on Sunday morning. (CBC) "I stopped her immediately and offered to drive her home, which I did. There are at least three witnesses, one of whom even spoke to CTV, that refute the details of her allegations. CTV left that out of the story," he says.  CTV News 'stands by its story' Matthew Garrow, spokesperson for Bell Media, responded to Brown's Facebook post on Sunday in an email to CBC Toronto. "CTV is aware of the claims made in Patrick Brown's Facebook post today and those reportedly made in his interview with the Toronto Sun.  CTV News stands by its story," Garrow said in an email on Sunday. Brown notes that one of his accusers continued to act as a supporter after the alleged incident. He says she attended his events, asking him to introduce her to colleagues to help her write articles, liked many of his Facebook posts and helped out on his leadership campaign.  According to Brown, she also sat at a table of supporters when he spoke to the Economic Club of Canada in November 2016.  Brown writes: 'The #MeToo movement is too important to allow outrageous allegations like these to derail it.' (Chris Young/The Canadian Press) "It is now known that this accuser and one of the reporters had a prior relationship. They both worked and socialized together. At no time did she ever act as someone who was anything but a friend and supporter," he says. 2 women not named in report In a report on Jan. 24, CTV did not name the two women who have come forward with allegations that date back to when Brown was a federal MP. The women alleged the incidents occurred in his home in Barrie, Ont. The report said the first accuser claimed she was in high school when Brown allegedly asked her to perform oral sex. The report said the second accuser claimed she was a university student working in his constituency office when he allegedly tried to kiss her after an event she helped to organize. Brown has not been charged and the allegations have not been proven in court.  A photograph of the office door of former PC Leader Patrick Brown is shown at Queen's Park in Toronto on Thursday, Jan. 25, 2018, after he stepped down as opposition leader. (Nathan Denette/Canadian Press) In the post, Brown expresses support for the #MeToo movement, a hashtag used by women on social media to demonstrate how widespread the problem of sexual harassment and sexual assault is and to share their personal stories. "The #MeToo movement is important. I support it. I embrace it. My drive to public service includes creating a safer and more respectful world for women," he says. "The #MeToo movement is too important to allow outrageous allegations like these to derail it." With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories If Patrick Brown can clear his name, he can run for Ontario PCs: Elliott Former Ontario PC leader Patrick Brown calls allegations 'absolute lies' Patrick Brown resurfaces on social media, vowing 'truth will come out' over sexual misconduct allegations Big challenges ahead for Ontario PC leadership hopefuls in race to replace Patrick Brown 'Ticking time bomb' of sexual misconduct forces parties to pick candidates carefully Ontario PC president steps down amid purge of Patrick Brown loyalists from top posts Patrick Brown resigns — how it happened and what happens next: Fisher Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now