Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Gatherings will be limited to 10 people in Manitoba as of Monday due to COVID-19 Gatherings will be restricted to a maximum of 10 people in Manitoba due to the COVID-19 pandemic, down from 50, chief provincial public health officer Dr. Brent Roussin announced Friday morning. Social Sharing New rule applies to family gatherings, weddings, funerals, religious services Sarah Petz · CBC News · Posted: Mar 27, 2020 11:12 AM CT | Last Updated: March 27, 2020 Dr. Brent Roussin, Manitoba’s chief public health officer, announced further limitations on group sizes in Manitoba on Friday, March 27. (Gary Solilak/CBC) Gatherings will be restricted to a maximum of 10 people in Manitoba due to the COVID-19 pandemic, down from 50, starting on Monday, chief provincial public health officer Dr. Brent Roussin announced Friday morning.  The restriction applies to indoor and outdoor premises, family gatherings, places of worship and events such as weddings and funerals, Roussin said.  The change does not apply to places where social services and/or health care are provided, homeless shelters, or workplaces. But, Roussin said workplaces should ensure physical distancing measures are in place, that employees can wash their hands frequently, and that employees can work from home when possible.  Retail businesses, including grocery stores, will also need to continue to ensure customers are one to two metres apart at all times, Roussin said. This was previously recommended, but starting Monday, it will be compulsory under the Public Health Act, Roussin said.  'This is our time to act,' chief medical officer says as Manitoba sees 1st COVID-19 death Manitoba launches online counselling to help with anxiety during COVID-19 pandemic Community transmission is "inevitable" in Manitoba, but reducing the maximum gathering size will mitigate that, he said.  "This is just one tool available to us to heighten that sense of urgency." WATCH | Dr. Brent Roussin explains why the province is further limiting group sizes: Dr. Brent Roussin on restricting group sizes CBC News Manitoba1 year ago 1:33Chief provincial public health officer Dr. Brent Roussin announced gatherings will be restricted to a maximum of 10 people at a time in Manitoba. 1:33 A report from the Public Health Agency of Canada found that as of Tuesday, more than half of the COVID-19 cases in Canada were caused by community transmission.  Of the 1,352 cases that the Public Health Agency of Canada had provided epidemiological data on up to that point, 53 per cent were a result of infection from community transmission, while 44 per cent were tied to travellers and people who came into close contact with a traveller who tested positive. Roussin said Manitoba has been ahead of the game in implementing physical distancing strategies such as closing schools and limiting public gatherings. He pointed out that in some other jurisdictions, those measures weren't taken until there was evidence of sustained community transmission of COVID-19.  Social distancing strategies become more stringent in Manitoba 1 year ago 2:05Gatherings will be restricted to a maximum of 10 people in Manitoba due to the COVID-19 pandemic, down from 50, starting on Monday. 2:05 Latest local news AnalysisWhy Manitoba can't test more people for COVID-19 What Manitobans need to know about COVID-19 Government boosts wage subsidy to 75% for small, medium businesses to avoid layoffs during COVID-19 crisis THE LATESTCoronavirus: What's happening in Canada and around the world on March 27 The announcement comes the same day Roussin announced the first death of a Manitoban from COVID-19: a woman in her 60s who was in intensive care. Three additional probable cases of the coronavirus were also announced Friday, bringing the total number of lab-confirmed positive and probable cases in Manitoba to 39. Public health investigations are underway to determine more details and which other people may have been exposed. Health inspectors ensuring compliance  In "extreme cases," the 10-person rule can be enforced under provincial law, Roussin said. Thus far, public health inspectors have been in businesses to ensure they're complying with physical distancing rules enacted by the province, he said.  Roussin also said the province is considering using peace officers to enforce these rules.  Still, the new limitations on public gatherings are not about collecting fines, Roussin said. "This is about Manitobans realizing that now is the time for action," he said.  "We know a lot of people are going through some rough times because of this, but it's for the health of all Manitobans." WATCH | Full news conference on COVID-19 | March 27, 2020: Manitoba government daily briefing on coronavirus: March 27 CBC News Manitoba1 year ago 57:27Provincial officials give update on COVID-19 outbreak: Friday, March 27, 2020. 57:27 With files from Adam Miller and Amina Zafar CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now