Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Gatherings now limited to 10 as new COVID-19 restrictions come into effect New restrictions on gatherings in Manitoba start today, limiting them to 10 people or fewer in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Social Sharing Restrictions apply to weddings, funerals, other events, but not health and social services CBC News · Posted: Mar 30, 2020 8:41 AM CT | Last Updated: March 30, 2020 Dr. Brent Roussin, Manitoba's chief public health officer, announces gatherings will be restricted to 10 people or fewer to reduce the risk of community transmission in Manitoba. (John Woods/The Canadian Press) New restrictions on gatherings in Manitoba start today, limiting them to 10 people or fewer in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The restrictions, made under the Public Health Act, apply to indoor and outdoor premises, all events such as weddings and funerals, and places of worship. They do not apply to places where health care or social services are provided, such as child-care centres and homeless shelters. Shopping centres, food stores, gas stations and pharmacies can stay open, but physical distancing of one to two metres must be enforced.  The 10-person cap also does not apply to workplaces, but employers are encouraged to enforce physical distancing.  Gatherings will be limited to 10 people in Manitoba as of Monday due to COVID-19 What Manitobans need to know about COVID-19 Chief provincial public health officer Dr. Brent Roussin announced the restrictions Friday, saying they would come into effect on Monday.  Reducing the maximum gathering size in the province is intended to mitigate community transmission of the virus, he said.  WATCH | Dr. Brent Roussin explains why the province is further limiting group sizes: Dr. Brent Roussin on restricting group sizes CBC News Manitoba1 year ago 1:33Chief provincial public health officer Dr. Brent Roussin announced gatherings will be restricted to a maximum of 10 people at a time in Manitoba. 1:33 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now