Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Government to help Canadians come home from coronavirus-hit region of China Foreign Affairs Minister François-Philippe Champagne said today the government will provide consular services to all Canadians trapped in the coronavirus-affected region of China due to commercial travel restrictions. Social Sharing 'We're looking at all options,' Foreign Affairs Minister François-Philippe Champagne says Kathleen Harris · CBC News · Posted: Jan 28, 2020 1:32 PM ET | Last Updated: January 29, 2020 Foreign Affairs Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne looks on as Minister of Health Patty Hajdu responds to a question in the Foyer of the House of Commons Tuesday, January 28, 2020. (Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press) comments Foreign Affairs Minister François-Philippe Champagne said today the government will provide consular services to all Canadians trapped in the coronavirus-affected region of China due to commercial travel restrictions. During a news conference on Parliament Hill, Champagne said the government will provide a "tailored response" based on the needs of the Canadians in the area — but did not say if an aircraft would be dispatched to repatriate people from the Wuhan area. "We're looking at all options to assist them," he said. Champagne said that 250 Canadians in the affected area have now registered with Global Affairs, and 126 have requested consular assistance to get home. "We are in contact with them. We're trying to contact everyone, assess their specific need for assisted repatriation," he said. "We're at the same time consulting with our allies and looking at the different options that people are considering, also in contact with the Chinese authorities." Champagne said he couldn't confirm the government will dispatch aircraft to bring those Canadians home, or say whether they could be transported with the assistance of another country. Coronavirus deaths in China rise to 132 with confirmed cases nearing 6,000 Global Affairs warns against all travel to coronavirus-affected region in China Health officials expect more coronavirus cases, but say risk of outbreak in Canada remains low "Every nation is responding to this crisis in a coordinated fashion," he said. "As you would appreciate, it is very dynamic. The number of people requesting assistance will drive, obviously, the consular assistance we're going to be providing." Health Minister Patty Hajdu said she could not detail yet how the government would deal with Canadians in China who may be infected with the coronavirus, or say whether they would be put into isolation. "This is an utmost priority for me, to make sure we're protecting the health and safety of Canadians, whether they are abroad or whether they're here," she said. Champagne on help for Canadians in Wuhan Politics1 year ago 0:51Foreign Affairs Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne spoke with reporters after Question Period on Tuesday 0:51 So far, three cases of the novel coronavirus have been reported in Canada. A Toronto man in his 50s and his wife were infected during a trip to Wuhan, China, and a third presumed case was reported in British Columbia today. B.C. health officials said Tuesday a man in his 40s who regularly travels to China has tested positive for the virus and is now recovering at home in isolation. The case is officially considered "presumptive" until Winnipeg's National Microbiology Lab confirms the results from B.C. The official number of confirmed coronavirus cases in China rose to 4,515 on Tuesday, with at least 106 deaths. Several governments — including the United States, France, Belgium, the U.K. and Japan — are planning to evacuate their citizens from Wuhan, the locked-down city at the centre of the outbreak. Risk remains low Hajdu and Canada's Chief Public Health Officer Theresa Tam have said more cases are likely but the risk to Canadians remains low. On Monday, Global Affairs Canada changed its travel advisory for the region, warning against all travel to the area at the centre of the outbreak. Hajdu said the government changed the advisory largely because the widespread quarantine is making it difficult for anyone to leave the area. Champagne says nations are coordinating efforts on coronavirus Politics1 year ago 0:33Foreign Minister François-Philippe Champagne says government is assessing the number of Canadians in China who require assistance, including how many will require help leaving. 0:33 "There is no transportation in or out of 18 cities in China. That number may grow, and so it makes if very difficult for people who are visiting to conduct their everyday business," she said. Health committee hearings Tomorrow, the House of Commons health committee will begin hearings on the government's response to the coronavirus outbreak in China. Conservative health critic Matt Jeneroux said Canadians have many unanswered questions about the virus, and he hopes they can be answered by federal health, transport and foreign affairs officials. "There are questions about how public safety is being taken care of, how the screening at airports is being taken care of, how hospitals are being taken care of. I think all of those are legitimate questions that are being asked, and having detailed responses back to those questions I think is appropriate," Jeneroux told CBC. "Ultimately, we don't want to light up a partisan fire on this. We want to make sure that Canadians are assured that their government is working diligently to protect all Canadians." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Coronavirus deaths in China rise to 132 with confirmed cases nearing 6,000 Global Affairs warns against all travel to coronavirus-affected region in China Health officials expect more coronavirus cases, but say risk of outbreak in Canada remains low Canadian companies feeling the pinch as coronavirus takes toll on their business prospects Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now