Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Hamilton Hamilton riding PC candidates allege voter fraud, ballot box stuffing Two candidates in the Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas PC race are claiming voter fraud after a heated nomination meeting they say involved ballot box stuffing. Social Sharing Warning: This story contains graphic language Samantha Craggs · CBC News · Posted: May 17, 2017 9:56 PM ET | Last Updated: May 18, 2017 Ben Levitt, 25, is Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas's new provincial PC candidate. Two of his challengers have filed appeals alleging ballot box stuffing and voter fraud. (Adam Lawson) Two candidates in the Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas PC race are claiming voter fraud after a heated nomination meeting they say involved ballot box stuffing. Our jaws were on the floor. We couldn't believe it.- Jeff Peller Vikram Singh and Jeff Peller have both appealed to the Ontario PC Party regarding a nomination meeting Peller says was "the biggest undemocratic shit show I've ever witnessed." It happened on May 7, when Ben Levitt, a 25-year-old staffer in Conservative MP David Sweet's office, won the candidacy for the 2018 provincial election. The Ontario PC party hasn't commented on the allegations, nor has Levitt's team.  Levitt, who had support from former federal cabinet minister John Baird, won primarily based on the votes cast at the credentials table, Singh's team says in the filing. There were seven regular voting tables, and Singh won those tables combined, the appeal claims. But those with issues on the list — a misspelled name or incorrect address, for example — were sent to the credentials table. Vikram Singh's team filed an 11-page appeal to the party asking for the results to be overturned. (vsingh.ca) Party officials were at that table, Singh's filing says. And Levitt won 202 of 345 of the ballots counted there to Singh's 78 — enough to win Levitt the nomination. I've got some fight left in me.- Jeff Peller The party also failed to substantiate the ballots at that desk, the appeal claims. This happened despite "repeated requests to count the credentials desk registration forms." "The inability of the party officials to operate in good faith has put into question the entire nomination process," it says. While the party hasn't commented, leader Patrick Brown told media five days ago that auditors from PricewaterhouseCoopers will monitor future nomination meetings because the party is seeing "more energized" contests. The Toronto Star reports that two other nominations — Newmarket-Aurora and Ottawa West-Nepean — are also being challenged. Peller has made similar allegations to Singh, adding that many of his supporters were turned away at the credentials table. And the meeting itself, he said, was a rowdy, hostile, impatient affair. Jeff Peller, pictured in a website photo with MP Lisa Raitt, says he wants the result overturned. "I’ve got some fight left in me," he said. (nominatejeffpeller.com) "There was a two-hour window for 4,300 people to vote," he said. "It was a very hostile and unsafe environment. My wife was pushed. Our jaws were on the floor. We couldn't believe it." AnalysisThe leader you don't know vs. the leader you don't like: Robert Fisher The Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas race was destined to be a heated one. Brown has touted it a riding for the taking if Ted McMeekin, current Liberal MPP, decides to retire. The Singh appeal focuses on how many ballots can be processed in a two-hour window when workers would have to validate identification and addresses along the way. For all 345 to be valid, and Levitt to win, the appeal says, that would mean one person every 26 seconds. Singh's appeal asks for him to be declared the winner. Peller wants the party to reconsider what he calls an "impugned candidate result." "I've got some fight left in me," Peller said. The notices of appeal are directed at Rick Dykstra, president of the Ontario PC party, and Bob Stanley, executive director of the party. Singh's also mentions staff Logan Bugeja. samantha.craggs@cbc.ca | @SamCraggsCBC CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now