Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Hamilton Hamilton police consider handing off investigation into alleged fixing of PC nomination battle Hamilton police are considering investigating a Progressive Conservative nomination meeting marred by allegations of ballot box stuffing after receiving a complaint about what happened. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Aug 09, 2017 11:37 AM ET | Last Updated: August 10, 2017 Patrick Brown cuts a cake alongside Vikram Singh at a fundraising dinner held by Singh's family on Dec. 28. (Patrick Brown/Twitter) Hamilton police are investigating a complaint about a Progressive Conservative nomination meeting marred by allegations of ballot box stuffing. But while the service says it is looking into information received about the meeting, it is also weighing whether the issue would be better handled by a different agency.  Ben Levitt won the Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas nomination meeting in May, but it was challenged by two would-be candidates — Vikram Singh and Jeff Peller. Both have asked the court for a judicial review. They allege the process was tainted by fraud and say the result should be overturned. The allegations in Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas are among several Progressive Conservative nomination results being questioned by party members. In response, party leader Patrick Brown brought in PricewaterhouseCoopers auditors to oversee party nominations. Hamilton police say a complaint was made to them in May about the Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas meeting and "the process used to select the candidate." A statement from Hamilton Police Service released Wednesday afternoon said the agency is not sure it will continue to pursue an investigation itself. "Hamilton Police Service is currently reviewing information obtained and a determination will be made whether the investigation will be continued by Hamilton police or forwarded on to another investigative agency," the statement reads. Brown's office had no comment about the potential investigation. The Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas nomination has been marred with scandal since the nomination meeting May 7.  Singh and Peller asked the party to review the nomination. Then on June 3, Brown dismissed the complaints by certifying all 64 candidates who had won local races so far. Singh's court filing alleges Brown encouraged him to run, and even strategized with him and attended a party fundraiser at his parents' home in December. Rick Dykstra, provincial party president, said in his own court filing that Singh was seen as "unreliable," and that "demographic analysis" showed Levitt was a better pick. Brown was also worried about some 30-year-old family history. Dykstra also said Brown can pick whatever candidate he wants regardless of who wins a nomination meeting. Clarifications This story was updated after clarification received from Hamilton police that they are investigating, not just reviewing a complaint. Aug 10, 2017 1:50 PM ET With files from Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Hamilton riding PC candidates allege voter fraud, ballot box stuffing Hamilton PC hopeful takes party to court with allegations of voter fraud Brown thought Singh inspired mistrust and didn't fit the HWAD demographic: court doc Second PC hopeful asks court to overturn Conservative nomination Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now