Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Health officials expect more coronavirus cases, but say risk of outbreak in Canada remains low Health officials say the risk of an outbreak of the coronavirus in Canada remains low, but they expect more cases. Social Sharing First 'presumptive' case reported in Toronto Saturday, Winnipeg lab tests to confirm Kathleen Harris · CBC News · Posted: Jan 26, 2020 10:20 AM ET | Last Updated: January 27, 2020 'Ain't our first rodeo': How Canada is responding to coronavirus CBC News1 year ago 7:10Health officials in Canada are using lessons learned from past outbreaks like SARS and H1N1 to control the spread of coronavirus after announcing the first presumed case in Canada. 7:10 comments Federal health officials expect more cases of the coronavirus, but say the risk of an outbreak in Canada remains low. Health Minister Patty Hajdu said officials at all levels of government are working with hospitals and international partners to prevent and respond to potential infections.  "We're working actively to limit the spread of the virus," Hajdu said at a news conference in Ottawa Sunday morning after the first "presumptive" case of coronavirus was reported in Toronto. Hospitals have an "incredibly strong" system to prevent and control infections, she said. People wear masks as a precaution due to the coronavirus outbreak as they wait for the arrivals at the international terminal at Toronto Pearson International Airport in Toronto on Saturday, Jan. 25. Canadian health officials have announced a first presumed case in Ontario. (Nathan Denette/The Canadian Press) Hajdu said much has been learned from the SARS virus in 2003. Since the first cases of this novel coronavirus were reported in China in December, the federal government has been in close contact with the provincial health authorities and international players to share information in a "collaborative, responsive" approach. WATCH: Health Minister Patty Hajdu on the federal response to coronavirus Coronavirus patient is 'isolated and under care' CBC News1 year ago 0:56Health Minister Patty Hajdu says all levels of government are sharing information and taking a 'collaborative' approach. 0:56 Hajdu said there is considerable misinformation being spread about the virus which "belies the reality" that the risk to Canadians remains extremely low. CBC News has reported that misinformation and unverified claims about the virus have been circulating on social media. While the government does not expect a chartered plane is necessary to evacuate Canadians from the Wuhan region where the outbreak began, Hajdu said Global Affairs Canada stands ready to provide support services for any Canadian trying to leave China. CBC News has learned that one Canadian will be on board a flight chartered by Washington to fly diplomats and Americans out of Wuhan. A government official said 67 Canadians are registered as being in the affected region, but because registration is voluntary, the figure does not give a complete picture of Canadians in Hubei or in China. Canada's 1st 'presumptive' case of coronavirus found in Toronto Toronto is prepared to handle a coronavirus outbreak, health officials say Canada's Chief Public Health Officer Theresa Tam said despite the fact the number of cases in China is increasing, the export to other countries remains low and the risk remains low in Canada. Tam said the reported case Saturday was "not unexpected." Canada confirmed its first "presumptive" case of coronavirus in Toronto on Saturday after receiving lab results. The patient, a man in his 50s who had recently travelled to Wuhan, China, is isolated at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre and is now in stable condition. "The health system is on alert to detect potential cases and to respond promptly when they are confirmed," Tam said. "It shows that our systems are working." The case is "presumptive" until it is formally confirmed by the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg. Tam said she expects the formal results of the test to confirm the virus within 24 hours. She said the man experienced symptoms on board China Southern Airlines Flight CZ311, but he apparently did not report those symptoms. Health officials are now tracing fellow passengers who were seated close to the patient — in a two-metre radius — to determine if others are affected. Family members of the patient are also being closely monitored and in self-isolation. WATCH: Canada's Chief Public Health Officer Theresa Tam on the coronavirus Coronavirus patient 'had symptoms on the plane' CBC News1 year ago 0:55Dr. Theresa Tam, Canada's chief public health officer, says a diagnostic test for the novel coronavirus has been developed. 0:55 According to the U.S.-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), coronaviruses most commonly spread from an infected person to others by air through coughing or sneezing, close personal contact such as touching or shaking hands, or by touching an object or surface contaminated with the virus, then touching your mouth, nose or eyes before washing your hands. Coronaviruses are a family of diseases that range from a common cold to more serious diseases such as SARS. The federal health department's website says symptoms of most coronaviruses are usually mild to moderate and can include a runny nose, headache, cough, sore throat and/or fever, as well as a general feeling of being unwell. Looking for a comprehensive plan and full resources from the federal government to contain this novel <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/coronoavirus?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#coronoavirus</a>. The NDP will cooperative in every way to help keep Canadians safe. <a href="https://t.co/stRsWSH48u">https://t.co/stRsWSH48u</a>&mdash;@DonDavies Howard Njoo, Canada's deputy chief public health officer, agreed that the first case in Canada was not unexpected, and that other cases in Canada are likely. He said it's possible that other passengers on board that flight could have transferred to flights to other provinces. The health agency's protocol is to follow up on those persons for possible symptoms over the next 14 days. The number of infections worldwide now exceeds 2,000 cases, most of them in China, which reports 56 deaths. Timeline: How the new coronavirus arose and spread China says death toll from coronavirus now 80, warns its ability to spread 'increasing' Dr. Jerome Leis, an infectious diseases specialist at Sunnybrook, said people who are acutely ill should go to hospital, but said those with mild symptoms should reach out to public health authorities. "We completely understand that there's a lot of anxiety and questions in the general public, and that is very understandable. I want to be absolutely clear that individuals who have questions or anxiety, the first reflex should not be to go to an emergency department," he said. "The first point of contact should be with public health if there are questions or concerns." Air Canada announced Sunday it is extending its "goodwill policy" to allow passengers to make alternate travel arrangements during the affected period. People can change their flight free of charge to another date or another destination, or can cancel a flight for a full refund. Risk mitigation measures Risk mitigation measures now in place include messaging on arrival screens at the Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver airports reminding travellers to advise border officials if they are experiencing flu-like symptoms. WATCH: Why finding viral cases is easier now: Presumed coronavirus in Canada: Why finding viral cases is easier now News1 year ago 0:40Experts say Canada is much better prepared for the new coronavirus than it was for SARS in 2003. 0:40 "While the risk of an outbreak of novel coronavirus in Canada remains low, I encourage Canadians to tell your health-care professional if you have travelled to an affected area of China, and develop flu-like symptoms," Hajdu said. Officials said the man took a flight on Jan. 21 from Wuhan to Guangzhou, then from Guangzhou to Toronto, arriving on Jan. 22. Masks to prevent the transmission of viruses were sold out in some stores in downtown Toronto after the first presumed case of coronavirus was announced Saturday. (Evan Mitsui/CBC) He is believed to have travelled "privately" from the airport to his home. Officials do not believe he took public transit. They have not said what part of the city the man lives in. Upon arriving, he told family members he felt ill and called 911. Officials say paramedics took all necessary precautions "right from first contact" until the hand-off to the hospital's emergency department on Jan. 23, officials say. AnalysisWhy Canada's 1st suspected coronavirus case is 'a world of difference' from SARS It is not clear how lethal the new coronavirus is or even whether it is as dangerous as the ordinary flu, which results in 12,200 hospitalizations and about 3,500 deaths in Canada annually. Ontario Premier Doug Ford said provincial health officials are putting full resources to the virus, and will be staying vigilant and informing the public "every step of the way." "It's something I feel we have a good handle [on] and we're ready, but we want to see the extent of this," he said Sunday in Toronto. Avoid non-essential travel Foreign Affairs Minister François-Philippe Champagne issued a statement Sunday reminding Canadians to pay attention to travel advisories warning against non-essential travel to Hubei, China, including the cities of Wuhan, Huanggang and Ezhou. Canadians already in the region should register with consular officials, which will give them access to the latest updates from the government, he said.  "We understand the concerns of Canadians in the region and those of their families and loved ones. We are in contact with and providing assistance to Canadians currently on the ground," Champagne said in the statement. "Canadian consular officials are closely monitoring the situation and are in contact with local authorities and our international partners to gather more information and provide support to the extent possible. Canada does not have a consular presence in Wuhan." Emergency co-ordination centre Transport Minister Marc Garneau's office said the department has set up a dedicated team to support and respond, and has activated the Emergency Co-ordination Centre. On Friday, Transport Canada officials held a teleconference with the Public Health Agency of Canada and airline representatives, and reminding the carriers they are required, under the terms of the Quarantine Act, to report ill passengers. Transport officials have also been in regular contact with the Canadian Air Transport Security Authority (CATSA) to discuss contingencies and readiness plans. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Canada's 1st 'presumptive' case of coronavirus found in Toronto Analysis Why Canada's 1st suspected coronavirus case is 'a world of difference' from SARS China says death toll from coronavirus now 80, warns its ability to spread 'increasing' Follow the spread of the new coronavirus with this interactive map Second Opinion 'It plays to our worst fears': Coronavirus misinformation fuelled by social media Mother pleads for Canada to evacuate her daughter from 'life-threatening' situation in Wuhan Coronavirus facts, vaccination rates falling short: CBC's Marketplace consumer cheat sheet External Links Global Affairs registration abroad Flu facts from Government of Ontario Government of Canada on coronavirus symptoms CDC on transmission of coronavirus Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now