Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto How Ontario's cap-and-trade system works Ontario's first cap-and-trade auction takes place on Wednesday. Here is a basic explanation on how the cap-and-trade system is expected to work. Social Sharing Province's first cap-and-trade auction takes place today — but how does the system work? The Canadian Press · Posted: Mar 22, 2017 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: March 22, 2017 Ontario's cap-and-trade system is expected to be linked to Quebec and California's in 2018. (Janusz Wrobel/Getty Images) Ontario's first cap-and-trade auction takes place on Wednesday. Here is a basic explanation on how the cap-and-trade system is expected to work. Ontario plunges into cap and trade with first carbon auction Five things to know about cap-and-trade  Ontario has set a greenhouse gas emissions cap of roughly 142 megatonnes for 2017. — Companies that pollute at least 25,000 tonnes per year will have to have a number of allowances equal to their emissions. — One allowance is equal to one tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent. — The allowances will be available for purchase at quarterly auctions. Participating businesses can also buy and sell credits to each other on a secondary market. — Most large emitters will receive allowances for free until 2020, which the government says is meant to prevent them from moving to jurisdictions without carbon pricing. — Fuel distributors and electricity importers will not receive the free allowances. Electricity importers will not receive free allowances. (CBC) — The emissions cap will decline each year, from 142 megatonnes in 2017, to 136 megatonnes in 2018, to 131 megatonnes in 2019, to 125 megatonnes in 2020, which is equal to the government's target of getting emissions 15 per cent below 1990 levels by 2020. — As the emissions cap declines and fewer allowances are available, the government hopes the incentive increases for companies to invest in technologies that cut their emissions. — The floor price on carbon is expected to be set for auctions at between $17.50 and $18 per tonne, though demand could push the price higher. — Participating companies can also purchase and use offset credits to meet up to eight per cent of their emission allowance requirements. — Offset credits will be created by projects outside Ontario that reduce or remove one tonne of greenhouse gas emissions, such as tree planting or capturing and destroying methane gas, and those credits can then be sold to Ontario cap-and-trade participants. — Companies can also get some early reduction credits for work already done to reduce emissions. — Cap-and-trade proceeds are directed to a Greenhouse Gas Reduction Account to fund green projects such as home and business retrofits. — Ontario's cap-and-trade system is expected to be linked to Quebec and California's in 2018. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Ontario plunges into cap and trade with first carbon auction Five things to know about cap-and-trade Kathleen Wynne says she is being transparent about cap-and-trade costs Gasoline prices rise as Ontario's cap-and-trade takes effect Business impact from cap and trade a matter of wait and see Ontario cap-and-trade won't limit emissions through 2020: environment watchdog Leamington greenhouse growers say cap-and-trade is killing family businesses Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now