Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal How to follow CBC's coverage of the Quebec budget Quebec Finance Eric Girard will deliver the provincial budget at the National Assembly today — the first from the Coalition Avenir Québec government. Social Sharing Eric Girard will table the CAQ's first-ever provincial budget today CBC News · Posted: Mar 21, 2019 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: March 21, 2019 Quebec Finance Minister Eric Girard will table the CAQ's first provincial budget on Thursday. (Paul Chiasson/Canadian Press) Quebec Finance Eric Girard will deliver the provincial budget at the National Assembly on Thursday — the first from the Coalition Avenir Québec government. What to look for in the CAQ government's first budget today Here's how you can follow CBC News coverage of the budget and take part in our online coverage at cbc.ca/montreal and on Facebook. Online We will have full coverage online at cbc.ca/montreal after the budget is tabled, shortly after 4 p.m. ET We will carry Girard's speech at the National Assembly live on the website, and we will share the budget's highlights and what it means for you on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Check back Friday morning for analysis from political reporter Jonathan Montpetit, who will take a closer look at the government's plans. Radio 4 p.m. ET — Tune in to CBC Radio One for special budget coverage, reaction and analysis with host Ainslie MacLellan. Then catch our regional radio newscasts with Joanne Bayly at 4:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m.  Friday, 5:30 a.m. ET — You can catch reaction to the budget and more analysis on Friday morning, on CBC's Daybreak and Quebec A.M. Television 6 p.m. ET — We will have full coverage on CBC Montreal News at 6, featuring anchor Debra Arbec's interview with Finance Minister Eric Girard and analysis from Marie-Soleil Tremblay, who teaches finance and governance at Quebec City's École Nationale d'Administration Publique (ENAP). 11 p.m. ET - Anchor Nancy Wood will bring you more coverage and analysis of the budget on CBC Montreal News at 11. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories What to look for in the CAQ government's first budget today Budget 2019: Highlights of Bill Morneau's fourth federal budget Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now