Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal How Quebec's 2019 budget will affect your wallet You’ll save more on child care, but not on green-friendly renovations. Here’s what the 2019 budget means for you. Social Sharing Daycare and eyeglasses will cost less, but some home renovations will cost more Sarah Leavitt · CBC News · Posted: Mar 21, 2019 4:15 PM ET | Last Updated: March 21, 2019 Quebec unveiled its 2020-21 budget on Tues. March 10, 2020. (Lyzaville Sale/CBC) comments The Coalition Avenir Québec government is promising to "put money back in the pockets of Quebecers" with its 2019 budget. What does that mean for you? No more sliding-scale daycare fees Making good on a major election promise, the CAQ government says it will spend $1 billion over five years to roll out pre-kindergarten classes for four-year-olds. The classes will be free but not mandatory. The government says as of September 2019, there will be 250 classes available across the province. It hopes the new classes will relieve some of the strain on the daycare system. Making good on a major election promise, the CAQ says it will invest $1 billion over five years in rolling out kindergarten classes for four-year-olds. The classes will be free but not mandatory. (Jeff Pachoud/AFP/Getty Images) Speaking of daycare: the government is taking further steps to eliminate the sliding-scale fee system introduced by the previous Liberal government. The rates were frozen in December's mini-budget. Now, as of 2022, the scale will be eliminated altogether, saving some families an average of about $1,200 per year. This year, families with an income below $78,320 will not have to pay the additional contribution, and families with an income above that will save 70 cents per day. You'll be paying less in school taxes As of July, the government will take the first steps toward harmonizing school-tax rates across the province. The goal is to have a single rate by July 2021. By then, homeowners across the province will be paying a tax rate that equals the lowest effective rate in the province from 2018-2019. Quebec government uses big surplus to deliver electoral promises more costly than advertised That means in 2021, the owner of a home valued at $270,000 in Montreal will save $179 a year, while an owner of a home of the same value in Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean will save $500. In order to compensate for the lost revenue, the government plans on transferring $200 million to school boards this year. Goodbye RénoVert There is no mention in the budget of the RénoVert tax credit, which was given to homeowners doing renovations that boosted energy efficiency. The popular RénoVert credit will not be renewed this year. The government will instead maintain other tax credits that are similar to that program, including the Rénoclimat, Novoclimat and Éconologis programs provided through Transition énergétique Québec, the provincial agency responsible for supporting and promoting the energy efficiency and innovation. Hello glasses for your kids The government says one way it wants to reduce the school dropout rate is by helping parents pay for eyeglasses or contact lenses for their children, aged 17 and under. Starting in September, up to $250 will be reimbursed to cover the cost of eyewear every 24 months. The government says one way it wants to reduce the school dropout rate is by helping parents pay for eye glasses or contact lenses for their kids 17 and under. (The Associated Press) Reimbursements will be done through the provincial health insurance plan. Incentive to extend your career Faced with a tight labour market, the government is hoping to encourage Quebecers to continue working past the age of 60. A tax credit for those 61 and older already exists, but it was calculated based on a maximum amount of eligible work income, which was capped at $5,000. How to follow CBC's coverage of the Quebec budget As of next tax season, the government will raise the maximum amount to $10,000 and lower the age of those eligible to 60. Small- and medium-sized businesses will also receive a refundable tax credit to promote the retention, or hiring, of workers 60 and over. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Sarah Leavitt Journalist Sarah Leavitt is a journalist with CBC Montreal. Follow Sarah on Twitter CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories How to follow CBC's coverage of the Quebec budget Quebec government uses big surplus to deliver electoral promises more costly than advertised Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now