Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Human Rights Watch accuses Myanmar military of widespread rape Human Rights Watch accused Myanmar security forces on Thursday of committing widespread rape against women and girls as part of a campaign of ethnic cleansing during the past three months against Rohingya Muslims in the country's Rakhine state. Social Sharing WARNING: This story contains details some people may find disturbing Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 16, 2017 4:33 AM ET | Last Updated: November 16, 2017 Ayesha, a 20-year-old Rohingya refugee victim of rape, is shown as she spoke in September in Bangladesh. UN observers say they have seen scores of rape and gang rape survivors among the Rohingya who have fled ethnic violence in Myanmar. (Dominique Faget/AFP/Getty Images) Human Rights Watch accused Myanmar security forces on Thursday of committing widespread rape against women and girls as part of a campaign of ethnic cleansing during the past three months against Rohingya Muslims in the country's Rakhine state. The allegation in a report by the New York-based rights group echoes an accusation by Pramila Patten, the UN special envoy on sexual violence in conflict, earlier this week. The Passionate Eye: Behind the Rohingya Crisis Why Myanmar's Rohingya Muslims are one of the most persecuted minorities in the world Patten said sexual violence was "being commanded, orchestrated and perpetrated by the Armed Forces of Myanmar." Myanmar's army released a report on Monday denying all allegations of rape and killings by security forces, days after replacing the general in charge of the operation that drove more than 600,000 Rohingya Muslims to flee to Bangladesh. Ethnic-cleansing accusations The United Nations has denounced the violence as a classic example of ethnic cleansing. The Myanmar government has denied those allegations. Human Rights Watch spoke to 52 Rohingya women and girls who fled to Bangladesh, 29 of whom said they had been raped. Rohingya Muslim woman Haseena Begum, 45, sits for a photograph inside her shelter near Balukhali refugee camp, Bangladesh. Begum said she was raped by three soldiers. (Dar Yasin/Associated Press) All but one of the rapes were gang rapes, Human Rights Watch said. "Rape has been a prominent and devastating feature of the Burmese military's campaign of ethnic cleansing against the Rohingya," said Skye Wheeler, women's rights emergencies researcher at Human Rights Watch and author of the report. "The Burmese military's barbaric acts of violence have left countless women and girls brutally harmed and traumatized," she said in a statement. Human Rights Watch called on the UN Security Council to impose an arms embargo on Myanmar and targeted sanctions against military leaders responsible for human rights violations, including sexual violence. The 15-member council last week urged the Myanmar government to "ensure no further excessive use of military force in Rakhine state." It asked UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to report back in 30 days on the situation. Myanmar has said the military clearance operation was necessary for national security after Rohingya militants attacked 30 security posts and an army base in Rakhine state on Aug. 25. 'They thought I was dead' Myanmar is refusing entry to a UN panel that was tasked with investigating allegations of abuses after a smaller military counteroffensive launched in October 2016. Hala Sadak, a 15-year-old from Hathi Para village in Maungdaw Township, told Human Rights Watch that soldiers had stripped her naked and then about 10 men raped her. She told Human Rights Watch: "When my brother and sister came to get me, I was lying there on the ground, they thought I was dead." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Myanmar replaces general in charge of Rakhine state after Rohingya crackdown Why Myanmar's Rohingya Muslims are one of the most persecuted minorities in the world Bob Geldof returns Freedom of Dublin honour in protest of Myanmar's Suu Kyi Thunder Bay mosque raises money for Rohingya refugee crisis Amid 'deep concern' for Rohingya refugees, Trudeau meets with Myanmar leader Suu Kyi Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now