Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal Hundreds more classrooms would be needed to fulfill CAQ's 'almost impossible' pre-K plan Premier François Legault made the pledge to extend kindergarten to four-year-olds a key plank in his party's campaign, but school boards say the plan would be costly and difficult to implement. Social Sharing English-language school boards say they'd need 10 times current number of pre-K classes CBC News · Posted: Oct 29, 2018 11:17 AM ET | Last Updated: October 29, 2018 Premier François Legault made the pre-K plan a key part of his party's campaign platform, but school boards say it would be costly and difficult to implement. (Josée Ducharme/Radio-Canada) comments Quebec school boards will need to find thousands of additional classrooms if the Coalition Avenir Québec government moves forward on its promise to extend kindergarten to four-year-olds, according to Radio-Canada's calculations.  Premier François Legault made the pledge a key plank in his party's campaign, but school boards say it would be costly and difficult to implement. "I love huge challenges. It's a motivation for me and my government," said Quebec Education Minister Jean-François Roberge on CBC Montreal's Homerun. He said that despite the tough road ahead, Quebec parents will be better off with the choice between daycare and pre-K — where there are services for children for special needs. "Education is a top priority for the CAQ since the beginning," he said. "We will never cut on education, and we will never cut on learning disability services." The chair of Quebec's largest school board, the Commission Scolaire de Montréal, Catherine Harel Bourdon, says her school board would need to create 475 new classrooms to meet the needs of four-year-olds, and for that, they'd need more money from the government. (Radio-Canada) However, Quebec's school administrators says more resources are needed to make good on the CAQ's promise. "In just four years, it [would be] almost impossible," said Catherine Harel Bourdon, chair of the Commission Scolaire de Montréal, the province's largest school board. Educators await details on François Legault's pre-kindergarten promise According to Radio-Canada, the CSDM, which is already facing a staffing shortage, would require 475 additional classrooms — the equivalent of 23 new schools. "We do not have the land, we don't have the classes, and we do not have the staff," Harel Bourdon said. Russell Copeman, the executive director of the Quebec English School Boards Association, said 450 new classrooms would have to be created across QESBA's network to accommodate four-year-olds. (CBC) In the English-language sector, an estimated 450 new classes would be needed across the province to accommodate the influx of students, said the executive director of the Quebec English School Boards Association (QESBA), Russell Copeman. There are currently about 45 pre-K classes across the network's nine school boards. "It's going to be a huge challenge," said Copeman. "We believe there is value to pre-K or [kindergarten] for four-year-olds, under the right conditions." Those conditions, he said, are adequate funding, availability of enough teachers, and the development of a program suitable for all of the province's four-year-olds. West-end Montreal's English schools already full English-language schools in western Montreal neighbourhoods such as Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, Montreal West and Côte Saint-Luc are already at their capacity — so much so, said the English Montreal School Board (EMSB), that a new school is being planned for NDG to meet growing demand. EMSB spokesperson Mike Cohen said that while "it would be fantastic" for the province's less-populated schools to get a boost in enrolment, there could be difficulties if the boards do not have a say over where these new pre-K classes would go.  "We don't know where we would put these kids. So there would have to be a plan," said Cohen. He says he wants to hear more details from the government, but he noted that it has been difficult in recent years for the board to find new teachers. QESBA has put in a request for a joint meeting with its French-language counterpart, the Fédération des commissions scolaires du Québec, and government officials  to discuss the details of the pre-K program. More resources needed At Montreal's Commission Scolaire Marguerite-Bourgeoys, 300 additional classrooms — the equivalent of roughly 15 additional schools — would be required, while the Pointe-de-l'Île board on the island's east end would need 130 additional classes. The situation is similar north and south of Montreal, where school boards are also wondering how they would be able to make the plan work.  The Commission scolaire de Laval (CSDL) would need 272 additional classes, the equivalent of 10 to 13 new schools. The CSDL estimates it would cost nearly $285 million to acquire land, build schools and hire staff. Louise Lortie, chair of the Commission scolaire de Laval, estimated it would cost $285 million to acquire the land, build the schools and hire the staff.? Legault says pre-K would free up daycare spots During the campaign, Legault estimated the program would cost $311 million annually and could begin as early as 2019. He said the new program would free up 50,000 public daycare spots. Legault, however, hasn't made the campaign pledge a focus since winning the election. At his post-victory news conference, Legault said improving Quebec's schools is one of his government's top priorities. But he made no mention of the pre-K plan in his opening remarks. Here are the priorities of Quebec's new CAQ government "I want to put in place a plan to renovate our schools quickly," he said. "So we can offer our children beautiful schools as soon as possible." With files from CBC's Homerun, reporter Steve Rukavina and Radio-Canada's Jean-Philippe Robillard? CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Educators await details on François Legault's pre-kindergarten promise Here are the priorities of Quebec's new CAQ government CAQ promises to free up 50,000 daycare spots by putting kids in preschool early Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now