Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Husband of Ontario's 5th COVID-19 case also tests positive for coronavirus The husband of a woman confirmed as Ontario's fifth case of COVID-19 has also tested positive for coronavirus, health officials said Thursday. Social Sharing The man in his 60s is in self-isolation, health officials say CBC News · Posted: Feb 27, 2020 8:22 AM ET | Last Updated: February 27, 2020 Dr. David Williams, Ontario’s chief medical officer of health, left, and Dr. Eileen de Villa, Toronto's medical officer of health, said Thursday the risk of contracting coronavirus in Canada remains low. (Michael Wilson/CBC) comments The husband of a woman confirmed as Ontario's fifth case of COVID-19 has also tested positive for coronavirus, said the province's Ministry of Health on Thursday. The man in his 60s is at home in Toronto in self-isolation. Health officials say his only symptoms are a mild cough and fever. Local public health officials in the city "continue to be in regular contact" with the man, a ministry statement reads. "It is not surprising to hear this news," said Dr. Eileen de Villa, medical officer of health for the City of Toronto, during a news conference Thursday afternoon. "We know we have a mobile population with a lot of international travel," de Villa said. "At this time, the virus is not circulating locally. However, given the global circumstances, we are actively working with our city and health partners to plan for the potential of local spread." Wednesday, officials said the man's wife tested positive for coronavirus, nine days after she returned from a trip to Iran.  Health Minister Christine Elliott's director of communications said the woman's husband was not in Iran with her, and so this marks the first time Ontario has seen a case of human-to-human transmission. The patients in all of the other cases had a recent travel history to China. While China has been the epicentre of the outbreak of the virus known as COVID-19, Iran is now experiencing one of the worst outbreaks outside of China, with 254 people infected and 26 dead. More than 81,000 cases of COVID-19 have occurred since the virus emerged in the Hubei province of China. Ontario health officials say the risk of contracting coronavirus in Canada remains low and residents should take the same precautions as during flu season. "We had far more cases of influenza last week than we did coronavirus," said Dr. David Williams, Ontario's chief medical officer of health. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories COVID-19 outbreak: Here's what's happening around the world Thursday Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now