Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics 'I am personally pro-life,' Scheer says, vowing not to re-open abortion debate A day after three federal party leaders pushed him to declare his personal feelings about abortion in a debate, Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer said today he is personally "pro-life" but a government led by him would not change the status quo. Social Sharing 'As leader of this party it is my responsibility to ensure that we do not re-open this debate,' Scheer says John Paul Tasker · CBC News · Posted: Oct 03, 2019 11:47 AM ET | Last Updated: October 3, 2019 Conservative leader Andrew Scheer speaks at a volunteer fire department in Upper Kingsclear, N.B. (Jonathan Hayward/Canadian Press) comments Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer said today he is personally opposed to abortion — but a government led by him would not move to restrict access to the procedure. Speaking to reporters in New Brunswick, Scheer, a practising Catholic, said that while he opposes abortion, a government led by him wouldn't enact any government legislation to ban the procedure or support the efforts of any Conservative backbench MP to limit the practice. His declaration comes a day after three of the major party leaders pressured Scheer in a French election debate to say publicly how he feels personally about abortion. Scheer ducked the question last night, saying only that the abortion debate in Canada is settled. "My personal position has always been open and consistent. I am personally pro-life but I've also made the commitment that as leader of this party it is my responsibility to ensure that we do not re-open this debate, that we focus on issues that unite our party and unite Canadians," Scheer said Thursday at an announcement about tax credits for volunteer firefighters. "And that's exactly what I'll do and that's why I'll vote against measures that attempt to re-open this debate." Scheer says he is pro-life Politics News1 year ago 0:30Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer says he is personally pro-life, but reiterated that if elected he would not reopen the abortion debate. 0:30 Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau, who led the charge against Scheer's abortion stance in the debate, said today Scheer's reassurances aren't enough. "I'm going to fight for everyone, and I think women can see that. Andrew Scheer will not be there to defend their rights and that's very important. It's very important to understand the type of leadership that the various leaders have to offer," said Trudeau, campaigning today in Montreal. When asked about a 2011 article that described Trudeau as a Catholic who "is personally very opposed to abortion, but still believes nobody can tell a woman what she should do with her body," a Liberal Party spokesperson said Justin Trudeau is unquestionably "pro-choice." NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh said Scheer should have come clean with voters when he had the chance on the debate stage. "The fact that he said it today but he didn't say it during the debate, when asked about it directly, shows a lack of courage," Singh said at a press conference in Toronto. Scheer has a long history of social conservatism Scheer has long identified as a social conservative. In 2005, he spoke out against same-sex marriage in a speech in the House of Commons. While Scheer has so far refused to march in any of the country's pride parades, he said recently that the debate on same-sex marriage in Canada is settled. Why Andrew Scheer won’t march in a pride parade The National1 year ago 2:10Rosemary Barton asks Conservative leader Andrew Scheer about how his views on LGBTQ rights have evolved. 2:10 Scheer also has said he supports equality among homosexual and heterosexual blood donors — current rules demand that men who have sex with men remain celibate for three months before they can donate. The Conservative leader also has said he'd support a legislative ban on conversion therapy, a discredited pseudoscientific practice that attempts to turn gay people straight. When running for the party's leadership in 2017, Scheer told the anti-abortion group RightNow that he would allow "freedom of conscience" for backbenchers. "I think that's one of the things that makes the Conservative Party stronger, that we allow for a diversity of views on these issues within our own caucus and we don't tell anyone that they have to park their conscience or their faith at the door," he said, according to a transcript of the interview. POLL TRACKERLiberals lead over Conservatives in national polls PARTY PLATFORMSCompare platforms on top election issues In that interview, Scheer also said he has always voted in favour of "pro-life" legislation. "I can assure you that I support the right to individual MPs to speak out and bring, introduce matters that are important to them, but our party policy is clear on that and I think in order to maintain unity of our caucus it's important that the prime minister respects that," he said. Scheer has said he would allow individual Conservative MPs to introduce legislation they want to pursue, while affirming that he, as leader, would vote against legislation that seeks to limit abortion access. ABOUT THE AUTHOR John Paul Tasker Parliamentary Bureau John Paul (J.P.) Tasker is a reporter in the CBC's Parliamentary bureau in Ottawa. He can be reached at john.tasker@cbc.ca. Follow J.P. on Twitter CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 4 moments from the TVA French-language leaders' debate Trudeau says he would look at ways to improve medical assistance in dying law POLL TRACKER Liberals lead over Conservatives in national polls PARTY PLATFORMS Compare platforms on top election issues What you need to know to vote in Canada's federal election Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now