Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World 'I too have a nuclear button,' Trump warns Kim Jong-un U.S. President Donald Trump, responding to North Korean leader Kim Jong-un saying he had a nuclear button on his desk, said in a tweet on Tuesday that his nuclear button "is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!" Social Sharing 'It is a much bigger and more powerful one than his' tweets U.S. president Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jan 02, 2018 8:23 PM ET | Last Updated: January 3, 2018 U.S. President Donald Trump, responding to North Korean leader Kim Jong-un saying he had a nuclear button on his desk, said in a tweet on Tuesday that his nuclear button 'is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!' (Evan Vucci/Associated Press, Korean Central News Agency/Reuters) U.S. President Donald Trump, responding to North Korean leader Kim Jong-un's remark about having a nuclear button on his desk, said in a tweet on Tuesday that his nuclear button "is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!" North Korea warns of nuclear war at 'any moment' Kim Jong-un says 'the entire United States within range of our nuclear weapons' "North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un just stated that the 'Nuclear Button is on his desk at all times,' Trump tweeted Tuesday. "Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!" In a televised speech on Monday, Kim said "the entire United States is within range of our nuclear weapons, and a nuclear button is always on my desk. This is reality, not a threat." 'Madman' vs. 'dotard': Trump and Kim Jong-un trade insults, military threats North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un just stated that the “Nuclear Button is on his desk at all times.” Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger &amp; more powerful one than his, and my Button works!&mdash;@realDonaldTrump  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Kim Jong-un says 'the entire United States within range of our nuclear weapons' North Korea warns of nuclear war at 'any moment' 'Madman' vs. 'dotard': Trump and Kim Jong-un trade insults, military threats Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now