Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News The Weekly In China, people wonder how open government is being over coronavirus The 2003 SARS outbreak left 44 Canadians dead, but it wasn’t documented on social media. That’s because Facebook, Twitter and YouTube didn’t exist back then. Social Sharing The Weekly investigates role of social media and why coronavirus wasn't hidden like SARS Ania Bessonov · CBC News · Posted: Jan 26, 2020 2:23 PM ET | Last Updated: January 26, 2020 Coronavirus misinformation: Who can you trust? | The Weekly with Wendy Mesley The Weekly1 year ago 11:17Many are comparing the new coronavirus to the SARS outbreak in 2003. But there are some major differences between then and now, including the power and influence of social media. The Weekly investigates misinformation and disinformation, and the fight to protect the public. 11:17 comments The 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) left 44 Canadians dead, but it wasn't documented on social media. That's because Facebook, Twitter and YouTube didn't exist back then.  "Social media adds a whole new layer to all of this messaging that's out there that I didn't have to deal with when I was reporting on SARS," Maureen Taylor said today on The Weekly with Wendy Mesley. Maureen was CBC's The National health correspondent who reported on the deadly outbreak back in 2003. Fake news about the coronavirus is now flooding the web, and many are taking to social media to discuss the virus, especially in China. "It is indeed helping information to flow within the country," said Zhaoyin Feng, Washington correspondent for the BBC's Chinese Service.  Double-edged sword But Feng also called it a double-edged sword.  "Social media has also become a hot bed for misinformation."  Every day, Feng says she opens her Weibo and WeChat to find an abundance of headlines about the outbreak. But there's almost no way to know whether any of it's true.  Officially, people are being told not to panic. Yet, horrifying videos, some of which include doctors and patients collapsing on the hospital floor, are circulating. One viral post claims that setting off fireworks can sterilize germs in the air. That spread so widely, Chinese officials had to publicly debunk it.   A flight crew, wearing masks, arrives on a direct flight from China at Vancouver International Airport on Friday. (Jennifer Gauthier/Reuters) According to Feng, some Chinese people are criticizing their own government on social media for not being more open with information about the coronavirus. During the SARS outbreak, it wasn't possible to exert pressure via social media.  "There was a lot of criticism against the local authority of Wuhan, saying they delayed the efforts of combating the virus by covering up some information at the early stage," said Feng. "It's also making it hard for the Chinese government to cover up the story." With Twitter banned in China, residents must opt for Weibo and WeChat — messaging platforms known to be monitored by the Chinese state. Watch: How China is handling the outbreak How China is dealing with the coronavirus outbreak News1 year ago 3:26China has been taking aggressive action to prevent further spread of the coronavirus by starting to lock down areas that have been affected. 3:26 Online censors are busy scrubbing material the state deems "too alarming" and, according to AFP news, police arrested eight people for posting what it calls "rumours" about the virus. Feng said many in China are asking one question: "Why, why couldn't something be done earlier?" How open has China been about coronavirus? On Thursday, China's President Xi Jinping attempted to reassure the international community China was being open. "China stands ready to work with the international community to effectively curb the spread of the pneumonia cases caused by a new strain of coronavirus to uphold global health security," he said. Initially, China was praised for its transparency in combating the virus, something that didn't happen during the SARS outbreak back in 2003.  But as more information about the virus unfolds, people are starting to question the Chinese government's initial statements.  "Unfortunately now, it's looking a little bit like they weren't as forthcoming as they should have been," said Taylor. "They initially said there was no human-to-human transmission... and that it all originated from an animal in the market giving it to somebody who worked there. And that's not true. They said there were no health-care workers affected ... Well now we know there were 14 health-care workers affected." "It's starting to feel a lot like SARS as far as what the Chinese are saying," said Taylor. Now working as a physician assistant at a local Toronto hospital, Taylor says she is confident the disease will be contained quickly "if we have transparency and the right information coming out."  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now