Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal In retort to Trudeau, Quebec's premier asks federal leaders to 'stay out' of secularism law forever The Liberal leader said he is "deeply opposed" to the law, but doesn't think Ottawa should get involved in court cases against it, at least "for the moment." Social Sharing Liberal leader 'deeply opposed' to law, but says legal intervention not in the cards 'for the moment' John MacFarlane · CBC News · Posted: Sep 11, 2019 6:52 PM ET | Last Updated: September 11, 2019 Quebec Premier François Legault responds to reporters questions on the launch of the federal election, at the end of a cabinet meeting Wednesday. (Jacques Boissinot/The Canadian Press) comments Justin Trudeau said Wednesday that a Liberal government would not get involved in legal challenges to Quebec's religious symbols law, at least not "for the moment." But that wasn't good enough for the province's premier, François Legault, who wants a commitment from all federal leaders to keep out of the matter "forever." The polarizing nature of the law — which bars public school teachers and other authority figures in the public service from wearing religious symbols at work — has meant federal leaders have tread carefully around the issue in recent months. But the topic came up almost as soon as the federal election campaign officially began on Wednesday morning.  Speaking outside the Governor General's residence, Trudeau said he was "deeply opposed" to the law, which is also known as Bill 21.  The law is currently being challenged in Quebec Superior Court by two civil rights groups. Critics of Bill 21 have called on the federal government to seek intervenor status in the case. Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau talks to media at Rideau Hall in Ottawa on Wednesday. He says he is 'very pleased that Quebecers themselves have chosen to contest' the secularism law. (Justin Tang/The Canadian Press) But Trudeau said he would leave the matter at the provincial level, for the time being. "I don't think that in a free society we should be legitimizing or allowing discrimination against anyone," he said. "I'm very pleased that Quebecers themselves have chosen to contest this bill in court, to stand up and defend the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.  "We have been — I have been — watching very closely the process and considering the federal potential actions. For the moment, I think it would be counterproductive for the federal government to engage in this process." Legault replies Later Wednesday, Quebec Premier François Legault made his own position clear to reporters. Though he said he wanted to avoid responding to the statements of individual leaders, he made clear reference to Trudeau's "for the moment" remark. Where the parties stand on issues that matter most to Quebecers "I'm asking all federal parties to make sure, and to assure the population of Quebec, that they won't participate in any lawsuit against Bill 21," Legault told reporters at the National Assembly in Quebec City. "I want them to stay out of it forever — not only for the moment, but forever." Legault said the law is about Quebecers and has broad support. "Our government, plus the Parti Québécois, we represent more than 50 per cent of the population," Legault said, referring to the PQ's support for the law. Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer responds to questions in Ottawa on Wednesday. His says his party has 'no intention of intervening in the judicial process" around Quebec's secularism law. (Paul Chiasson/The Canadian Press) "We can see right now that the vast majority of Quebecers are for Bill 21, so I think it's not a matter for the federal government." Bloc Québécois Leader Yves-François Blanchet did not hesitate to defend the law and to emphasize his party's support for it. The law, he said, "is in our comfort zone." Asked about his position on the issue, Conservative Party Leader Andrew Scheer said he did not want to interfere in Quebec's affairs, although he said he disagreed with the law. "We have no intention of intervening in the judicial process," he said. "Quebec's elected officials made a clear decision." With files from Radio-Canada CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Where the parties stand on issues that matter most to Quebecers CBC Explains As fight over Quebec's religious symbols law shifts to courts, legal experts debate best way to challenge it Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now