Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Iran president signals willingness to stay in nuclear deal President Hassan Rouhani said on Sunday that Iran would remain committed to the 2015 nuclear deal if its interests were protected, while his foreign minister hoped the pact could be redesigned without Washington as a member. Social Sharing President Hassan Rouhani called U.S. withdrawal from accord a 'violation of morals' Thomson Reuters · Posted: May 13, 2018 4:04 PM ET | Last Updated: May 13, 2018 President Hassan Rouhani said on Sunday that Iran would remain committed to the 2015 nuclear deal if its interests were protected, while Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif began a tour of other signatory nations in an attempt to save the deal. (Iranian Presidency Office via AP) Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said on Sunday that Iran would remain committed to the 2015 nuclear deal if its interests were protected, while his foreign minister hoped the pact could be redesigned without Washington as a member. The U.S. withdrawal from the accord on Tuesday was a "violation of morals," Rouhani said in remarks carried by state television. AnalysisBeyond the Iran deal: Trump's campaign to undo Obama's legacy 'America cannot do a damn thing': Iranians protest as Europe ponders next move on nuclear deal "If the remaining five countries continue to abide by the agreement, Iran will remain in the deal despite the will of America," he said. U.S. President Donald Trump's pullout has upset European allies, cast uncertainty over global oil supplies and raised the risk of conflict in the Middle East. It has also highlighted divisions among Iran's political elite. Rouhani made similarly conciliatory comments on Tuesday, and on Saturday, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif began a tour of other signatory nations in an attempt to save the deal. Trump slams 'horrible' Iran deal News3 years ago 0:45U.S. president says it was a 'horrible, one-sided deal' 0:45 Zarif said in Beijing on Sunday: "We hope that with this visit to China and other countries we will be able to construct a clear future design for the comprehensive agreement." China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Zarif's tour would improve understanding of Iran's position and help Tehran protect its legitimate interests. "China is willing to maintain communication and co-ordination with all relevant parties, including Iran, and take an objective, fair and responsible attitude to continue to safeguard the ...agreement," Wang said. Rouhani has said Iran will stay committed to the deal, which China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany also signed, provided those powers ensured Iran was protected from sanctions. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, right, meets Iran's Mohammad Javad Zarif at Diaoyutai state guesthouse in Beijing on Sunday. (Thomas Peter/Pool Photo via AP) The three European states have recommitted to the agreement, but senior cleric Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami said on Friday that Europe was not to be trusted. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said on Sunday France intends to stay in the deal and still believes that it can prevent Tehran acquiring nuclear weapons. "We think that the fight against nuclear non-proliferation is important and this agreement means that nuclear non-proliferation is possible because Iran will not go all the way to nuclear weapons," Le Drian told reporters in Dublin. "We are stakeholders in the Vienna agreement and we are going to stay stakeholders," he said. Pressure from within Iran On Sunday, the head of the Assembly of Experts, a group of clerics responsible for choosing Iran's supreme leader, said Rouhani should apologize for not having obtained guarantees from world powers for the agreement. "It is necessary for the president to honestly and openly apologize to the people over the damages caused by the nuclear accord," Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, a top conservative, said in a statement carried by state media. Today's problem is not U.S. sanctions, it's that some officials look  towards  outside rather than looking at domestic potential.- Gen. Mohammad Ali Jafari , Revolutionary Guard The head of the elite Revolutionary Guards also warned against relying on foreign powers. "America's exit aims to break the Iranian people's resistance, which is not new ... but today's problem is not U.S. sanctions, it's that some officials look towards outside rather than looking at domestic potential," said Gen. Mohammad Ali Jafari, commander of the Revolutionary Guard, according to the state news agency IRNA. On Wednesday, Jafari cast doubt on European nations' ability to save the accord. With the deal opposed by hardliners at home, some analysts say the pragmatic Rouhani may now be a lame duck leader. U.S. sanctions of European companies 'possible' U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said he was hopeful that the United States and Europe could agree on how to deal with Iran, after Trump threatened to sanction European companies that continue doing business there. Speaking on Fox News Sunday, Pompeo said the United States was not aiming at Europe when it withdrew from the deal. Enjoyed my discussion with <a href="https://twitter.com/margbrennan?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@margbrennan</a> on <a href="https://twitter.com/FaceTheNation?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@FaceTheNation</a>. In days and weeks ahead, we’ll work with E3 to construct a deal that accounts for all of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Iran?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Iran</a>’s malign behavior.&mdash;@SecPompeo "I'm hopeful in the days and weeks ahead we can come up with a deal that really works, that really protects the world from Iranian bad behaviour, not just their nuclear program, but their missiles and their malign behaviour as well," he said White House National Security Adviser John Bolton said sanctions could be imposed on European companies. "It's possible. It depends on the conduct of other governments," Bolton said on CNN's State of the Union. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Beyond the Iran deal: Trump's campaign to undo Obama's legacy 'America cannot do a damn thing': Iranians protest as Europe ponders next move on nuclear deal Trump pulls U.S. out of 'disastrous' Iran nuclear deal, will restore sanctions Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now