Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Currently Selected: Home London Morning Afternoon Drive Contact Us Weather CBC News canada LIVE RADIOLIVE Radio One - London Featured Content Meadowlily condo plan fails to get support of planning committee Councillors on the city's planning committee vote against backing a staff recommendation in favour of the proposed condo development at 101 Meadowlily Rd. S. Now council, and possibly the province's land planning tribunal, will get the final say. Canada -London |March 30| Thinking of building a deck or fence this summer? Lumber prices might make you think again If you were hoping to finally get to the home projects you've been planning for months now, brace yourself for a more hefty bill. Canada -London |March 30 Video 2:16 Ontario isn't ruling out another delay to school spring break as COVID-19 cases rise Premier Doug Ford is dangling the possibility that Ontario's already-delayed March Break for schools could be postponed yet again, as the province confronts its third wave of COVID-19. Canada -Toronto |March 30| Video 0:51 Fire crews battle 'massive' blaze at Flying M Truck shop No injuries in fire at Flying M Truck Service on Colonel Talbot Road, south of Highway 401, but London Fire Platoon Chief says damages are estimated to be more than $500,000. Canada -London |March 29| New data shows COVID-19 pandemic now 'completely out of control' in Ontario, key scientific adviser says A new briefing note from a panel of science experts advising the Ontario government on COVID-19 shows a province at a tipping point. Canada -Toronto |March 30| London is moving into the red zone starting Tuesday Canada -London |March 29 Man charged after allegedly breaking into London's Al-Taqwa school Canada -London |March 29 57 new COVID-19 cases in London area Monday, 21 variants of concern Canada -London |March 29 Over 70? You're now eligible for a vaccine in London region Canada -London |March 29| Analysis London is headed for the red zone, data shows Canada -London |March 29 Longtime cycling advocate becomes London's first active transportation manager Canada -London |March 29 This old London building is getting new life from an owner who loves heritage Canada -London |March 29| Ontario suspending use of AstraZeneca vaccine for people under 55 following NACI recommendations Canada -Toronto |March 29| Exclusive More than half of all London, Ont., COVID charges in dispute or legal limbo Canada -London |March 29| GO PUBLIC 'Try not to stop and start' while driving, Honda tells owners stuck with cars not fit for winter Business |March 30| Updated London region reports 124 COVID-19 cases over the weekend Canada -London |March 29| CBC London in your community Introducing CBC Lite CBC Lite simplifies access for over 1 million Canadians who don’t have high-speed access to the internet and still want timely access to top headlines and news stories.  News -Canada -Montreal |March 15 London women share their inspirations, advice for next generation on International Women's Day News -Canada -London |March 8 CBC and Being Black In Canada recognize Black History Month News -Canada -Nova Scotia -Community |February 12 Black History Month At 14, this author hopes to inspire other Black kids to write News -Canada -London |February 1| Podcast The Hard to Stomach podcast explores stories of food insecurity across Ontario News -Canada -Toronto -Community |December 14, 2020 London Video now London - 10 videos Fire at Flying M Truck shop in London, Ont. 0:50CBC News London17 hours ago Racially charged exchange at London, Ont. restaurant 0:15CBC News London7 days ago Hong Kong quarantine camp 0:26CBC News London11 days ago OPP seize explosives, firearms and narcotics after eight-month investigation 0:30CBC News London12 days ago Vaccine clinic opens at North London community centre 0:51CBC News London13 days ago Food vlog introduces Londoners to century eggs 1:55CBC News London15 days ago Flooding at Harris Park in London, Ont. 0:24CBC News London18 days ago London Mayor marks National Day of Observance 2:14CBC News London19 days ago Brazen vehicle theft caught on security cameras 0:53CBC News London22 days ago Proposed biosolids storage site threatens family farm by fouling the air 1:00CBC News London22 days ago More CBC News Ontario reports 2,448 new cases of COVID-19 and 19 more deaths Canada -Toronto |March 29| 2 more Western University residences grapple with COVID-19 outbreaks Canada -London |March 28| Sign language courses are coming to Ontario high schools but will there be enough teachers? Canada -London |March 28| A year of tragedy: Londoners remember 185 lives lost to COVID-19 Canada -London |March 27 London Food Bank now lets you pick up hampers closer to home Canada -London |March 27| In Depth Ontario waterparks hope to open this summer, but need the province's OK Kate Bueckert Canada -Kitchener-Waterloo |March 27| Analysis Can the pandemic teach politicians to take long-term threats seriously? Aaron Wherry Politics |March 27| Analysis Is the pandemic killing the idea of the Commonwealth? Evan Dyer Politics |March 27| 54 new COVID-19 cases in London area Friday, 18 additional variants of concern Canada -London |March 26 Olympian Perdita Felicien's memoir is an homage to all the hurdles her mother faced Radio -As It Happens |March 26 London police set up task force to crack down on guns and gun-related violence Canada -London |March 26 Smoke alarm credited with saving the life of a London woman Canada -London |March 28Load More Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now