Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News London London, Ont. woman is 3rd confirmed coronavirus case in Ontario The patient with coronavirus has made a full recovery, according to provincial health officials. Social Sharing Risk to the public remains low, according to provincial health officials Alvin Yu · CBC News · Posted: Jan 31, 2020 1:38 PM ET | Last Updated: February 1, 2020 Case of coronavirus confirmed in London CBC News London1 year ago 1:13The CBC's Alvin Yu reporting on a female Western University student in her 20s who was tested for the coronavirus at University Hospital in London, Ont. on Jan. 24. 1:13 comments Western University is assuring students, faculty and staff that "there is very low risk to the campus community," after one of its students who was asymptomatic and at first tested negative, was later confirmed as Ontario's third case of coronavirus.  Dr. David Williams, the province's chief medical officer of health, said the patient is a woman in her 20s who flew from Wuhan on Jan. 23, returning to her home in London by car where she is a Western University student.  Health officials said she did not show any symptoms and wore a mask during the flight and in the vehicle, yet still chose to put herself in isolation.  "We do have a case here where both the system worked well and also, you had a patient who went above and beyond to protect the public and the people she was in contact with," said Dr. Chris Mackie, London's chief medical officer of health. The patient later admitted herself to University Hospital after showing symptoms, where she was swabbed and sent home. "As noted ... the student took great care and responsibility by self-isolating at home and seeking appropriate medical attention and has not been on Western's campus since returning to London," the university said in a written statement.  Ontario confirms 3rd coronavirus patient, Toronto hospital discharges the 1st one WHO declares coronavirus outbreak an international emergency The case is considered unique because the patient tested negative for coronavirus after that first swab. A few days later, a second test showed a "low viral load." "This is part of the science for the way we develop rapid new tests for a pathogen that we're just learning about," said Dr. Vanessa Allen, chief of medical microbiology at the Public Health Ontario Laboratory.   The patient has recovered to stay in regular contact with the Middlesex-London Health Unit. We do have a case here where both the system worked well and also, you had a patient who went above and beyond.- Dr. Chris Mackie, London's chief medical officer of health All cases being investigated by the province are tested at least twice, and so far, no other patient has had a negative test reversed. The risk for the public remains low, Williams added. Hospital protocol "LHSC's Emergency Department team took the necessary precautions to ensure the safety of other patients, visitors, staff and physicians," said Dr. Michael Payne, medical director for infection prevention and control at the London Health Sciences Centre, in a statement online. The London Health Sciences Centre has been screening patients with symptoms at various points of entry throughout the hospital.  Western University says the risk to the campus community remains very low. (Paula Duhatschek/CBC) University warns against sharing unverified information Meanwhile, Western's joint statement from the presidents of the university, students' council and society of graduate students, urges calm. "Posting and sharing unverified information via social media is not helpful and can contribute to the spread of misinformation and fear," the statement reads. "As a community, we have to work together to prevent the rise of racism that occurred during the 2003 SARS outbreak. Just as our medical community learned from SARS, our social community must as well. "The best thing each of us can do right now is to remain calm and approach our peers and colleagues with empathy and kindness," it continued. Total cases rise to 4 There are now four cases of coronavirus in Canada: three of them confirmed and one presumptive. Earlier on Friday, the patient with Canada's first confirmed case of coronavirus was discharged from a hospital in Toronto, send home to stay in self-isolation. The man was being treated at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre after arriving on a flight from China last week. His wife also has a confirmed case of the virus, although she has been at their home in self-isolation. Public health officials said Thursday that she is "doing well" and hasn't shown symptoms of infection. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Alvin Yu CBC staff Alvin Yu splits his time along the 401 corridor as a reporter for CBC London, and associate producer for CBC Toronto and The National. Yu set his sights on journalism early - as a kid he would anchor the news in the shower, hoping one day to make it to the big screen. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now