Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Long list of event cancellations due to COVID-19 a 'panicdemic,' health expert says As mass gatherings are cancelled in Toronto and around the globe, at least one local health expert says he's worried about the long term consequences of a "panic-demic." Social Sharing St. Patrick's Day Parade joins a long list of event cancellations in Toronto Philip Lee-Shanok · CBC News · Posted: Mar 13, 2020 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: March 13, 2020 More than 120 groups, including marching bands and floats, plus this leprechaun, took part in the annual parade last year. (John Sandeman/CBC) comments The list of events in the city falling victim to COVID-19 continues to grow in what one health expert calls a "panicdemic." Along with Maple Leafs and Raptors games, conferences and festivals, one of the biggest attractions to be cancelled is the St. Patrick's Day Parade, which was to wind its way through downtown Toronto this Saturday. "People are scared right now," said Shaun Ruddy, chair of the St Patrick's Parade Society of Toronto. "We were looking around at the different things in the city and what was being cancelled around us. And you know it doesn't make sense holding a parade when everybody else is quarantining and shutting down and isolating," he said.  "And so it just wasn't prudent on our part to be hosting a parade in the middle of a shutdown." 'It's utter chaos' But some health experts have suggested scuttling the St. Patrick's Day parade may be unnecessary, because it's an outdoor event. Dr. Abdu Sharkawy, an infectious disease specialist at the University Health Network, says he's as concerned about the spread of fear and panic as he is about the spread of the virus.  "The other epidemic, besides the pandemic, is what I call the 'panicdemic,'" said the professor of medicine at the University of Toronto. "In terms of having people completely paralyzed with fear, completely paralyzed in terms of an understanding of how to protect themselves, what to do, how to communicate with each other, it's utter chaos." Sharkawy says the federal government has a risk assessment checklist for mass gatherings occurring in a range of places — public and private, indoor and outdoor. And he's concerned about the long-term implications that the mass cancellation of public events pretty much around the world will have on people's psyches. Dr. Abdu Sharkawy calls the cancellations in response to the coronavirus outbreak a 'panic-demic,' which could have long-term implications. (supplied) "What's this going to mean for social isolation for mental health issues for people that already suffer from very profound anxiety and mood disorders? This can't be helpful," he said. "We need a prudent strategy that I think meets the middle ground between being cautious and responsible without having our society and our way of life completely grinding to a halt." Coronavirus: Here's what's happening in the sports world on Thursday NHL suspends season in response to COVID-19 pandemic Meantime, Ruddy says Toronto is late to the parade of cancellations so far. Montreal's St. Patrick's Day parade, Canada's oldest, has been called off. Chicago has cancelled its parade and New York City postponed its 258-year-old tradition. Even Ireland's parade in Dublin, one of the country's biggest tourist events, will not be held on March 17. This year's parade is just the latest cancellation for the city, which has already seen sports events and concerts called off. Shaun Ruddy, chair of the St Patrick's Parade Society of Toronto, says the volunteer run organization didn't want to take any chances and followed the lead of New York City, Chicago and Montreal in cancelling or postponing the parade. (supplied) Toronto's Canadian Screen Week activities are cancelled, the city's Collision tech conference slated for the Enercare Centre is now an online-only event, even the Greater Toronto Hockey League's players banquets have fallen victim to fears that mass gatherings in enclosed places could mean transmission of COVID-19. Also, the board of directors for TO Live, which runs the Sony Centre for the Performing Arts, St. Lawrence Centre for the Arts, and Toronto Centre for the Arts, will hold a special meeting Friday to decide whether or not to go ahead with its live theatre season as scheduled. Raptors players, staff advised to go into self-isolation due to COVID-19 Cancel some events, but COVID-19 shouldn't force moratorium on all public gatherings, experts say Ruddy says the community has been supportive of the decision to cancel the St. Patrick's parade. "This [pandemic] is not getting better, it's getting worse by the sound of it," he said. "There's been no blow back from anybody at all." ABOUT THE AUTHOR Philip Lee-Shanok Senior Reporter, CBC Toronto From small town Ontario to Washington D.C., Philip has covered stories big and small. An award-winning reporter with more than two decades of experience in Ontario and Alberta, he's now a Senior Reporter for CBC Toronto on television, radio and online. He is also a National Reporter for The World This Weekend on Radio One. Follow him on Twitter @CBCPLS. Twitter CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now