Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Thunder Bay Manitobans asked to skip weekends at northwestern Ontario camps An MPP and provincial cabinet minister is asking people from outside of northwestern Ontario who have seasonal residences in the region to avoid visiting during the global COVID-19 pandemic. Social Sharing Northwestern Ontario hospitals couldn't handle surge if COVID-19 starts spreading in seasonal communities CBC News · Posted: Apr 01, 2020 7:00 AM ET | Last Updated: April 1, 2020 Kenora-Rainy River MPP and Ontario cabinet minister Greg Rickford is calling on people who live outside of northwestern Ontario to avoid visiting their seasonal residences in the region due to the COVID-19 pandemic. (Frank Gunn/The Canadian Press) An MPP and provincial cabinet minister is asking people from outside of northwestern Ontario who have seasonal residences in the region to avoid visiting during the global COVID-19 pandemic. Greg Rickford said that as the weather warms, people from provinces like Manitoba may be tempted to visit their camps in northwestern Ontario, such as on Lake of the Woods. But, Rickford said, that would be a bad idea due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "Unfortunately, the small towns and cities in these areas, and across northern Ontario, are simply not equipped to handle the additional potential capacity on hospitals, or the public health risk, associated with a critical mass of people moving to their secondary residences," Rickford said. "But with the threat of ... the spreading of [COVID-19], and the consequences that are trending right now, that at least 10 to 15 per cent of them would be required at some point to go into an intensive care unit, it can convert quite quickly from asymptomatic to symptomatic, symptomatic to requiring a ventilator, our hospital isn't equipped to handle that." "Neither is Fort Frances," he said. "Neither is Dryden." Manitobans could overwhelm cottage country if they vacation during pandemic, health officials warn Rickford also called on the federal government to step in and help coordinate standard rules governing inter-provincial travel across the country. There have been four positive cases of of COVID-19 in the region; the most-recent is a case in Nipigon that was reported Monday afternoon. The City of Thunder Bay has three confirmed cases of the virus. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now