Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Manitoba Manitoba establishing checkpoints at provincial borders to warn travellers about COVID-19 risks The Manitoba government is deploying provincial employees to airports and five provincial border checkpoints to inform travellers about the risk of COVID-19. Social Sharing Information checkpoints on Trans-Canada Highway at Ontario border, 4 highways connecting to Sask. Ian Froese · CBC News · Posted: Mar 27, 2020 1:18 PM CT | Last Updated: March 27, 2020 A sign at the U.S.-Canada border crossing at Emerson, Man., on March 24, 2020, warns returning travellers to stay home for two weeks after their return. Information checkpoints will now be set up at provincial boundaries on five Manitoba highways. (Sean Kavanagh/CBC) The Manitoba government says it has no plans to close interprovincial borders to stop the coronavirus, but they're deploying staff anyway to speak with every person who enters the province at five highway crossings. On Friday, the province announced it is establishing checkpoints at the five busiest crossings and providing signage at airports, to inform travellers of the risk of COVID-19. The checkpoints — four entering from Saskatchewan and one from Ontario — are operational as of Friday afternoon, Infrastructure Minister Ron Schuler said. "If you're on two wheels or 18 … you're going to get one of these" information pamphlets, he said. "Even four-legged, you come through on a horse, we're going to hand you one of these and talk to you." The campaign will include signage at the Winnipeg and Brandon airports, as well as checkpoints at the following locations: Ontario border: Trans-Canada Highway east (West Hawk Lake/Falcon Lake). Saskatchewan border: Trans-Canada Highway west (west of Kirkella/Elkhorn/Virden). Highway 16 (west of Russell). Highway 5W (west of Roblin). Highway 2 (west of Sinclair/Reston/Souris). Schuler explained the checkpoints will alert travellers to the need to self-isolate and other pressing health information concerning the coronavirus. He said drivers should only expect a short delay. "What we're doing is we're handing individuals a sheet of paper and telling them that they must comply with it," he said. "We're not anticipating a debating club." Manitoba Infrastructure Minister Ron Schuler says Manitobans are getting the message around COVID-19 precautions and at this time there's no need to close the interprovincial border to outside traffic. (Tyson Koschik/CBC) Airport staff in Winnipeg and Brandon will be alerting travellers arriving from their domestic travels of the same information, Schuler said. Officials with the Canada Border Services Agency are already supposed to discuss precautions with international arrivals. No travellers will be denied entry into Manitoba, and the province has no intention at this point of closing its borders, or checking temperatures or doing other tests on travellers at provincial border crossings, Schuler said. The province feels there is currently no need to close the borders, he said. "We believe that if Manitobans continue to comply like they are that this is the best way to go about it. This gets the information out," Schuler said. "We are finding that there is amazing uptake on the request." No checkstop planned: Schuler In a discussion explaining Manitoba's approach, Schuler said he told a Saskatchewan minister that Manitoba was planning a checkpoint, not a checkstop. At each of the five border crossings, three government staff are on site. Schuler said they will not log the personal information of any arriving traveller. He added every driver entering Manitoba will be approached, no matter how frequently they cross the border. Drivers leaving Manitoba may expect minor delays to ensure the safety of people at the checkstop, Schuler said. The province has enlisted 60-80 staff in the infrastructure and sustainable development departments to work there. Latest local news: Manitoba announces 1st COVID-19 death Gatherings will be limited to 10 people in Manitoba Why Manitoba can't test more people for COVID-19 Staff at Manitoba 911 centre preparing for influx of calls A Manitoba guide to coronavirus: What you need to know today   ABOUT THE AUTHOR Ian Froese Reporter Ian Froese is a reporter with CBC Manitoba. He has previously worked for newspapers in Brandon and Steinbach. Story idea? Email: ian.froese@cbc.ca. Twitter: @ianfroese CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now