Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Message of next week's summit on North Korea also aimed at Trump's White House When more than a dozen foreign ministers meet in Vancouver next week to discuss diplomacy and North Korea, Kim Jong-un won't be the sole target of their messaging. A source tells CBC News a public show of support for non-military options may help build the case for diplomacy within the White House. Social Sharing Vancouver meeting will help boost case for diplomacy within the Trump administration, source says Katie Simpson · CBC News · Posted: Jan 12, 2018 2:44 PM ET | Last Updated: January 12, 2018 Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland and U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will co-host a meeting on Tuesday to discuss diplomatic solutions to the North Korean crisis. (Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press) When more than a dozen foreign ministers meet in Vancouver next week to discuss diplomacy and North Korea, Kim Jong-un won't be the only target of their messaging. A robust international show of support for non-military options is also aimed at the White House — even though the United States is co-host of the meeting, a source with direct knowledge of the preparations for the ministerial meeting told CBC News. A united front in favour of a meaningful diplomatic option may help U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson build his case for diplomacy against hawkish elements within the Trump administration, the source said. China heaping scorn on North Korea meeting next week in Vancouver North, South Korea agree to further talks aimed at easing tensions Canada and the United States are co-hosting the one-day summit Tuesday to discuss ways to ease the escalating tensions and rhetoric. "I think that Donald Trump and some other members of the U.S. administration will be part of the audience for this meeting," said Roland Paris, a former foreign affairs adviser to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Power Panel: Canada set to co-host summit on North Korea Politics News3 years ago 5:57Paul Wells, Marie Vastel, Aaron Wherry and Jen Gerson weigh in 5:57 "Whether they register the message is a different question," he added. Paris said it is obvious there are different factions within the Trump administration that represent a range of positions on North Korea. "Rex Tillerson has been advocating for a diplomatic approach to this crisis, that is a point of view that Canada shares, and so the purpose of this meeting is to talk about economic and diplomatic ways of getting North Korea to the table," Paris said. "I think it's the main purpose of this meeting," said Shin Maeng-ho, South Korea's Ambassador to Canada, who is attending the meeting.  During an interview on CBC's The House with guest host Alison Crawford, Shin added: "I think diplomacy is the only option left to us. War on the Korean peninsula means death of millions of people." "All foreign ministers in Vancouver will seek all the ways and means for diplomatic solution," Shin said. Diplomatic push back Tillerson has been public in his support of reopening talks with the North Korean regime, but his efforts were embarrassingly rebuffed by the White House. In December, Tillerson offered to open up a dialogue without preconditions, saying "let's just meet, and we can talk about the weather if you want." Donald Trump has said he is open to diplomatic talks with North Korea "at the appropriate time and under the right circumstances," according to the White House. (Al Drago/Getty Images) The White House quickly shot down the proposal, saying it was not ready to start communications with North Korea because of Pyongyang's nuclear weapons tests. Tillerson tried to downplay any difference between himself and the White House during a recent visit to Ottawa.  "The president's campaign has always been … a pressure campaign of sanctions and diplomatic pressure. The White House … they haven't rejected diplomatic talks," Tillerson told reporters last month. This past week, Trump indicated he is open to diplomatic talks, but "at the appropriate time and under the right circumstances," according to White House press secretary Sarah Sanders. Olympic delegation Trump has been direct in his criticism of North Korea, threatening to unleash "fire and fury like the world has never seen," over its weapons development. The president has also repeatedly referred to Kim Jong-un as "little rocket man." The head of the North Korea's delegation, Ri Son Gwon, shakes hands with his South Korean counterpart, Cho Myoung-gyon, after their meeting at the truce village of Panmunjom in the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas on Jan. 9. (Reuters) Tuesday's meeting will come a week after the first conversation in two years between officials from North Korea and South Korea. IOC to convene Olympic participation meeting with North, South Korea Talks this week at a neutral location in the demilitarized zone between the two countries lasted for 11 hours, with both sides agreeing to allow the North to send a delegation of athletes to the Pyeongchang Olympics next month. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Katie Simpson Politics Katie Simpson is a foreign correspondent with CBC News based in Washington. Prior to joining the team in D.C. she spent six years covering Parliament Hill in Ottawa and nearly a decade covering local and provincial issues in Toronto. Follow @CBCKatie on Twitter More from Katie Simpson With files from Alison Crawford and Murray Brewster CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories IOC to convene Olympic participation meeting with North, South Korea North, South Korea agree to further talks aimed at easing tensions China heaping scorn on North Korea meeting next week in Vancouver Analysis As rival Koreas thaw relations before the Winter Olympics, U.S. could get frozen out The National Today Why North Korea's Olympic ambition has little to do with podium glory Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now