Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Muslim groups urge mosques to suspend Friday prayer services amid coronavirus fears In a joint statement issued Thursday evening, the Canadian Council of Imams and the Muslim Medical Association of Canada recommended that sermons be suspended indefinitely, including today. Social Sharing 'As Muslims, we must do our part to reduce the spread of the virus,' joint statement says CBC News · Posted: Mar 13, 2020 6:51 AM ET | Last Updated: March 13, 2020 The rapid spread of COVID-19 has forced religious communities in affected countries to reconsider how and when they gather for services and social events. (Vincent Thian/Associated Press) Coronavirus fears have prompted two national Islamic groups to urge mosques around the country to cancel Friday prayers. In a joint statement issued Thursday evening, the Canadian Council of Imams and the Muslim Medical Association of Canada recommended that services be suspended indefinitely, including today. "As Muslims, we must do our part to reduce the spread of the virus," the statement said. The groups say they are forming a task force, made up of representatives from each as well as community leaders, to advise mosques in the days and weeks ahead. The Islamic Institute of Toronto, a large mosque in Scarborough, has told congregates that it will not be holding a Friday sermon. It has also cancelled all congregational prayers until further notice. ISNA Canada in Mississauga, Ont. regularly attended by hundreds, also cancelled prayers on Friday. Meanwhile, the Islamic Foundation of Toronto has said it will still host Friday prayers, though the sermon will be shorter than usual. The mosque is also asking attendees not to socialize afterward. THE DOSECOVID-19: The latest guidance for Canadians on travel, quarantines and what to do if you have symptoms Long list of event cancellations due to COVID-19 a 'panicdemic,' health expert says Alternatively, some places like the Syeda Khadija Centre in Mississauga are asking congregants who feel ill to tune in to its live stream of the Friday sermon instead. As of yesterday, there were at least 137 presumptive and confirmed cases of COVID-19, the illness caused by coronavirus, reported in Canada. Sixty of those cases are in Ontario, mostly concentrated in the GTA. One person in Canada has died from the virus. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories THE DOSE COVID-19: The latest guidance for Canadians on travel, quarantines and what to do if you have symptoms Long list of event cancellations due to COVID-19 a 'panicdemic,' health expert says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now