Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Myanmar journalists to protest over arrest of Reuters reporters A group of Myanmar journalists said they would begin wearing black T-shirts on Saturday in protest at the detention of two Reuters reporters accused of violating the country's Official Secrets Act, as pressure builds on Myanmar to release the pair. Social Sharing Black T-shirts 'to signify the dark age of media freedom' in Myanmar after 2 arrested over Rohingya coverage Thomson Reuters · Posted: Dec 16, 2017 9:43 AM ET | Last Updated: December 16, 2017 Reuters journalists Kyaw Soe Oo, left, and Wa Lone, both based in Myanmar, are accused of violating the country's Official Secrets Act. (Antoni Slodkowski/Reuters/Staff/Reuters) A group of Myanmar journalists said they would begin wearing black T-shirts on Saturday in protest at the detention of two Reuters reporters accused of violating the country's Official Secrets Act, as pressure builds on Myanmar to release the pair. The Protection Committee for Myanmar Journalists, a group of local reporters who have demonstrated against past prosecutions of journalists, decried the "unfair arrests that affect media freedom." These two journalists face 14 years in prison. Myanmar's Ministry of Information posted this photo on their Facebook page and said they “illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media.” Just awful. <a href="https://t.co/C9heuaZPAJ">pic.twitter.com/C9heuaZPAJ</a>&mdash;@JessicaMudditt In a statement on Facebook, the committee said its members would don black T-shirts "to signify the dark age of media freedom" in Myanmar. They demanded the unconditional and immediate release of the two reporters, Wa Lone, 31, and Kyaw Soe Oo, 27. "Journalists all over the country are urged to take part in the Black Campaign," the group said. It said it also planned to stage official protests and prayers. It is unclear how much support the group has among Myanmar's journalists. Human Rights Watch accuses Myanmar military of widespread rape The Protection Committee for Myanmar Journalists was formed in response to the arrest in June of a newspaper editor over the publication of a cartoon that made fun of the military, said video journalist A Hla Lay Thu Zar, one of the group's 21-member executive committee. "A reporter must have the right to get information and write news ethically," said A Hla Lay Thu Zar in reference to the case of the two Reuters journalists. Myo Nyunt, deputy director for Myanmar's Ministry of Information, told Reuters the case had nothing to do with press freedom. "It's related to the Official Secrets Act," he said. "Journalists should be able to tell what is secret and what is not... We already have press freedom. There's freedom to write and speak...There's press freedom if you follow the rules." Asked about the local reporters' "black campaign." he said, "Everyone can express his feelings." Pressure from across the world The journalists disappeared on Tuesday evening after they were invited to dine with police officers on the outskirts of Myanmar's largest city, Yangon. U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, the president of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani and government officials from Canada, Britain, Sweden, and Bangladesh, have all called for their release. The two reporters had been working on Reuters coverage of a crisis that has seen an estimated 655,000 Rohingya Muslims flee from a fierce military crackdown on militants in western Rakhine state. Why Myanmar's Rohingya Muslims are one of the most persecuted minorities in the world The ministry of information said the journalists had "illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media," and released a photo of the pair in handcuffs. Human rights advocates say press freedom is under attack in Myanmar, where the young civilian-led government of Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi shares power with the military that ran the country for decades. At least 11 journalists have been detained in 2017, although some have since been released. Officials have declined to tell Reuters or the two journalists' families where they are being held, saying only that they are being investigated under the 1923 Official Secrets Act, which carries a maximum prison sentence of 14 years.  ? CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Myanmar replaces general in charge of Rakhine state after Rohingya crackdown Why Myanmar's Rohingya Muslims are one of the most persecuted minorities in the world Bob Geldof returns Freedom of Dublin honour in protest of Myanmar's Suu Kyi Thunder Bay mosque raises money for Rohingya refugee crisis Amid 'deep concern' for Rohingya refugees, Trudeau meets with Myanmar leader Suu Kyi Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now