Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Myanmar's Suu Kyi: Instability leads to illegal migration, terrorism Myanmar leader Aung Suu Kyi says that the world is facing instability that leads to new threats, including illegal migration and terrorism, as her country faces accusations of violently pushing out hundreds of thousands of unwanted Rohingya Muslims. Social Sharing Military crackdown has so far driven more than 620,000 Rohingya into neighbouring Bangladesh The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 20, 2017 8:20 AM ET | Last Updated: November 25, 2017 Myanmar Foreign Minister Aung San Suu Kyi, right, speaks during the Asia Europe Foreign Ministers meeting at the Myanmar International Convention Centre on Monday in Naypyitaw. (Aung Shine Oo/Associated Press) Myanmar leader Aung Suu Kyi said Monday that the world is facing instability that leads to new threats, including illegal migration and terrorism, as her country faces accusations of violently pushing out hundreds of thousands of unwanted Rohingya Muslims. Suu Kyi did not directly mention the refugee exodus in a speech to European and Asian foreign ministers in Myanmar's capital, Naypyitaw.  The ongoing Rohingya exodus is sure to be raised by the visitors at the meetings Monday and Tuesday. Suu Kyi said the world is in a new period of instability as conflicts give rise to new threats and emergencies, citing "illegal migration, spread of terrorism and violent extremism, social disharmony and even the threat of nuclear war. Conflicts take away peace from societies, leaving behind underdevelopment and poverty, pushing peoples and even countries away from one another." Myanmar has been widely criticized for the military crackdown that has driven more than 620,000 Rohingya to flee Rakhine state into neighboring Bangladesh. The United Nations has said the crackdown appears to be a campaign of "ethnic cleansing," and some have called for re-imposing international sanctions that were lifted as Myanmar transitioned from military rule to elected government. CBC InvestigatesDid the UN ignore warnings of ethnic cleansing of Rohingya in Myanmar? The CurrentCanada's Special Envoy to Myanmar: 'We have to try to engage Aung San Suu Kyi' Foreign ministers and representatives of 51 countries are meeting in Naypyitaw in a forum that aims to further political and economic cooperation but takes place against the backdrop of the ongoing Rohingya refugee crisis. Call for 'mutual understanding' A flurry of diplomatic activity preceded Monday's opening, with the foreign ministers of Germany and Sweden joining the EU's foreign policy chief in a visit to the teeming refugee camps in Bangladesh. China's Wang Yi was also in Bangladesh and met privately with Suu Kyi on Sunday in Myanmar following that trip. Suu Kyi is Myanmar's foreign minister and state councilor, a title created for the country's once-leading voice for democracy since she is constitutionally banned from the presidency. She does not command the military and cannot direct its operations in northern Rakhine state, but her remarks in seeming support of the brutal crackdown have damaged her global reputation. Myanmar's Foreign Minister Aung San Suu Kyi, centre, poses with other counterparts of members of the Asia Europe Foreign Ministers for a group photo before their meeting on Monday in Naypyitaw. (Thein Zaw/Associated Press) In her speech to the visiting foreign ministers, Suu Kyi also cited natural disasters caused by climate change as compounding the world's problems. She said mutual understanding of problems like terrorism would be crucial for peace and economic development. "I believe that if policymakers develop a true understanding on each of those constraints and difficulties, the process of addressing global problems will become easier and more effective," she said. "It is only through mutual understanding that strong bonds of partnership can be forged." The European Union's top diplomat said earlier Monday that she is encouraging Suu Kyi to implement the recommendations of an expert panel on ensuring stability in Rakhine state and work was still needed on that. The commission, led by former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, called for promoting investment and community-directed growth to alleviate poverty in Rakhine, which Myanmar officials have supported. But it also called for Myanmar to grant citizenship and ensure other rights to the Rohingya, which are hotly disputed and effectively render most of them stateless. Reforms urged The commission, established last year at Suu Kyi's behest, issued its report the day before a Rohingya insurgent group killed dozens in attacks on multiple police posts on Aug. 25. The military's response has been called disproportionate and a textbook example of ethnic cleansing. Rohingya now in Bangladesh have described indiscriminate shootings, rapes and arsons that wiped out whole villages. Some survivors bear wounds from gunshots and land mines. "Stopping the violence, stopping the flow of refugees and (guaranteeing) full humanitarian access to Rakhine state and safe, sustainable repatriation of the refugees is going to be needed," said Federica Mogherini, the high representative for EU foreign policy. Corrections A previous version of this Associated Press story contained wrongly transcribed remarks by Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi that illegal immigration spreads terrorism. According to an official transcript of the speech released a day later, Suu Kyi said: "Conflicts around the world are giving rise to new threats and emergencies; illegal migration, spread of terrorism and violent extremism, social disharmony and even the threat of nuclear war." Nov 25, 2017 5:13 PM ET CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Human Rights Watch accuses Myanmar military of widespread rape Myanmar replaces general in charge of Rakhine state after Rohingya crackdown The Current Canada's Special Envoy to Myanmar: 'We have to try to engage Aung San Suu Kyi' CBC Investigates Did the UN ignore warnings of ethnic cleansing of Rohingya in Myanmar? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now