Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Myanmar military says soldiers killed 10 captured Rohingya Myanmar's military says its soldiers killed 10 captured Muslim "terrorists" during insurgent attacks at the beginning of September, after Buddhist villagers had forced the captured men into a grave they had dug. Social Sharing Rights group Amnesty International says admission 'is only the tip of the iceberg' Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jan 11, 2018 10:12 AM ET | Last Updated: January 11, 2018 A Rohingya refugee girl walks next to a pond in the early morning at Balukhali refugee camp near Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, on Wednesday. (Tyrone Siu/Reuters) Myanmar's military says its soldiers killed 10 captured Muslim "terrorists" during insurgent attacks at the beginning of September, after Buddhist villagers had forced the captured men into a grave they had dug. "Villagers and members of the security forces have confessed that they committed murder," the military said in a statement on Wednesday. It was a rare admission of wrongdoing by the Myanmar military during its operations in the western state of Rakhine. The army launched a sweeping counteroffensive in the north of the state in response to Rohingya militant attacks on Aug. 25, triggering an exodus of more than 650,000 Rohingya Muslim villagers. Over 6,700 Rohingya killed in a single month, Doctors Without Borders estimates As It HappensBob Rae describes 'appalling' conditions and widespread trauma at Rohingya refugee camps The United Nations has condemned the army's campaign as ethnic cleansing. That is denied by Myanmar, also known as Burma, saying its forces were carrying out legitimate counterinsurgency operations. The military announced on Dec. 18 that a mass grave containing 10 bodies had been found at the coastal village of Inn Din, about 50 kilometres north of the state capital Sittwe. The army appointed a senior officer to investigate. The military said on Wednesday its investigation had found that members of the security forces had killed the 10 and that action would be taken against them. A Myanmar border guard police officer stands in front of the remains of a house burned down in a clash between suspected militants and security forces in Tin May village, northern Rakhine state, on July 14. (Simon Lewis/Reuters) Security forces had been conducting a "clearance operation" in the area on Sept. 1 when "200 Bengali terrorists attacked using sticks and swords," the military said in a statement posted on the Facebook page of its commander-in-chief, Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing. The military refers to members of the Rohingya Muslim minority as "Bengalis," a term the Rohingya reject as implying they are illegal migrants from Bangladesh. 'Action will be taken' Ten of the attackers were captured after the security forces drove the rest off by firing into the air, according to the statement on Facebook, which the military often uses to make announcements. The captives should have been handed over to the police, in line with procedure, but the militants were attacking "continuously" and had destroyed two military vehicles with explosives, it said. "It was found that there were no conditions to transfer the 10 Bengali terrorists to the police station and so it was decided to kill them," the military said, referring to the findings of the investigating team. It was found that there were no conditions to transfer the 10 Bengali terrorists to the police station and so it was decided to kill them.- Myanmar military Angry ethnic Rakhine Buddhist villagers, who had lost relatives in militant attacks, wanted to kill the captives, and stabbed them after forcing them into a grave on the outskirts of the village. Then members of the security forces shot them dead, the military said. "Action will be taken against the villagers ... and the security force members who violated the rules of engagement according to the law," the statement said. Action would also be taken against those who had failed to report the incident to their seniors, and those responsible for supervising the operation, it added. CBC InvestigatesDid the UN ignore warnings of ethnic cleansing of Rohingya in Myanmar? Myanmar prosecutors seek charges against 2 Reuters reporters The military investigation was led by Lt.-Gen. Aye Win. The same officer had been in charge of a wider probe into the conduct of troops in the conflict that concluded in a report in November that no atrocities had taken place. International reaction The rights group Amnesty International said the statement from the military was "a sharp departure from the army's policy of blanket denial of any wrongdoing."   "However, it is only the tip of the iceberg and warrants serious independent investigation into what other atrocities were committed amid the ethnic cleansing campaign that has forced out more than 655,000 Rohingya," the rights group said in a statement. The military's admission prompted the European Union and representatives of Muslim nations to renew calls for a broader international investigation into the recent violence in Rakhine. "The military's acknowledgment that the security forces were involved in the killing of these 10 individuals is an important step," U.S. Ambassador Scot Marciel said in a forum on media freedom with journalism students and reporters in the main city of Yangon. "We hope it is followed up by more transparency and by holding those responsible accountable. I would stress this should be done, not as a favour to the international community, but because it's good for the health of Myanmar's democracy." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Over 6,700 Rohingya killed in a single month, Doctors Without Borders estimates As It Happens Bob Rae describes 'appalling' conditions and widespread trauma at Rohingya refugee camps CBC Investigates Did the UN ignore warnings of ethnic cleansing of Rohingya in Myanmar? Myanmar prosecutors seek charges against 2 Reuters reporters Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now