Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Myanmar replaces general in charge of Rakhine state after Rohingya crackdown Myanmar's army has replaced the general in charge of Rakhine state following a military crackdown that has driven more than 600,000 Rohingya Muslims into neighbouring Bangladesh amid reports of mass rape, torture and other crimes. Social Sharing Move comes as UN official accuses military of sexual violence, other crimes against humanity Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 13, 2017 8:26 AM ET | Last Updated: November 13, 2017 Rohingya refugees cross the Naf River with an improvised raft to reach to Bangladesh in Teknaf, Bangladesh, on Sunday. (Mohammad Ponir Hossain/Reuters) Myanmar's army has replaced the general in charge of Rakhine state following a military crackdown that has driven more than 600,000 Rohingya Muslims into neighbouring Bangladesh amid reports of mass rape, torture and other crimes. Maj.-Gen. Maung Maung Soe was transferred from his post as head of Western Command in Rakhine, where Myanmar's military, known as the Tatmadaw, launched a sweeping counter-insurgency operation in August. "I don't know the reason why he was transferred," said Maj.-Gen.Aye Lwin, deputy director of the psychological warfare and public relations department at the Ministry of Defence. "He wasn't moved into any position at present; he has been put in reserve." CBC InvestigatesDid the UN ignore warnings of ethnic cleansing of Rohingya in Myanmar? AnalysisSome 600,000 refugees later, Ottawa digs in on dealing with Myanmar on Rohingya crisis The move comes ahead of the visit on Wednesday by U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who is expected to deliver a stern message to Myanmar's generals, over whom national leader Aung San Suu Kyi, criticized in the West for failing to halt atrocities, has little control. Push for U.S. sanctions Senators in Washington are pressing to pass legislation imposing economic and travel sanctions targeting the military and its business interests. Leaders of Asian countries meeting in Manila on Monday skirted around the mass exodus of Rohingya Muslims, disappointing human rights groups hoping for a tough stand on the crisis. Maung Maung Soe's transfer was ordered on Friday and Brig.-Gen. Soe Tint Naing had been appointed as the new head of Western Command. Soe Tint Naing's previous role was as a director for logistics. A Myanmar border guard police officer stands in front of the remains of a house burned down in a clash between suspected militants and security forces in Tin May village, northern Rakhine state, Myanmar, on July 14. (Simon Lewis/Reuters) A senior UN official has described the army's actions in Rakhine as a textbook example of ethnic cleansing. Myanmar says the clearance operation was necessary for national security after Rohingya militants attacked 30 security posts and an army base in the state on Aug. 25. Reports of sexual violence On Sunday, another UN official accused Myanmar's military of conducting organized rape and other crimes against humanity, and said she would raise the matter with the International Criminal Court in the Hague. "When I return to New York, I will brief and raise the issue with the prosecutor and president of the ICC whether they [Myanmar's military] can be held responsible for these atrocities," Pramila Patten, special representative of the secretary general on sexual violence in conflict, said in Dhaka. "Sexual violence is being commanded, orchestrated and perpetrated by the Armed Forces of Myanmar, otherwise known as the Tatmadaw," Patten said following a three-day tour of the Rohingya refugee camps in the Cox's Bazar region of Bangladesh. "Rape is an act and a weapon of genocide," she said. An aerial view of a burned Rohingya village near Maungdaw, northern Rakhine state, is shown on Sept. 27. (Soe Zeya Tun/Retuers) Refugees have accused Myanmar soldiers and Buddhist vigilantes of torching their villages, murdering their families and raping women. Patten said brutal acts of sexual violence had occurred in the context of collective persecution that included the killing of adults and children, torture, mutilation and the burning and looting of villages. "The forms of sexual violence we consistently heard about from survivors include gang-rape by multiple soldiers, forced public nudity and humiliation, and sexual slavery in military captivity. One survivor was in captivity for 45 days by the Myanmar army," Patten said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories CBC IN BANGLADESH 'The scale is just vast': Authorities, aid workers in Bangladesh overwhelmed by Rohingya refugees CBC Investigates Did the UN ignore warnings of ethnic cleansing of Rohingya in Myanmar? Myanmar army killed hundreds of Rohingya in 'scorched-earth campaign,' Amnesty says Analysis Some 600,000 refugees later, Ottawa digs in on dealing with Myanmar on Rohingya crisis Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now