Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics No need for national security review of Aecon takeover, China's ambassador says A Chinese construction firm's bid to take over Canada's Aecon group does not need a national security review, according to China's ambassador to Canada. Ambassador Lu Shaye told reporters that China is more technologically advanced in construction, and therefore has no need to steal Canadian secrets. Social Sharing Canada has yet to say if it will conduct a full and separate national security review of $1.5B deal Katie Simpson · CBC News · Posted: Nov 07, 2017 4:17 PM ET | Last Updated: November 7, 2017 Lu Shaye, Ambassador of the People's Republic of China to Canada, says a Chinese contruction firm's proposed deal to buy Aecon is a "very normal business transaction" that does not require an additional national security review. (Andrew Vaughan/The Canadian Press) China's ambassador to Canada says there is no need for a national security review of a Chinese firm's $1.5-billion bid to take over Canadian construction giant Aecon.  "The technology from the Chinese side is much higher than the Canadian side... it is not necessary for them [the Chinese government] to steal the technologies from Canadian companies," Ambassador Lu Shaye told reporters in Halifax through an interpreter today. Lu described the proposed deal as a "very normal business transaction," saying it does not involve "military technologies," and therefore Canada does not need to conduct an additional review. Chinese construction firm CCCI to buy Aecon for $1.5B  "In my point of view, it is not necessary to have the scan in the prospective of national security reasons," Lu said.  "We will respect any decision made by the Canadian government in this regard," he added, suggesting a review will not sour potential free trade talks between Canada and China.  Last month, CCCC International Holding Ltd., a state-owned company, made a $1.5-billion bid to purchase Aecon Group Inc., a Canadian construction firm that has created landmarks like the CN Tower. Case-by-case reviews Canada has yet to say if it plans to conduct a separate national security review in addition to the standard review required through the Investment Canada Act before approving the deal. "Each proposed investment is examined on a case-by-case basis and on its own facts and merits," said a statement from Innovation Minister Navdeep Bains' office. National security is a consideration in all Investment Canada Act reviews, but the government can also conduct an additional investigation if it deems one necessary. The CN Tower is one of the historic construction and engineering projects by Aecon Group Ltd. The firm also helped build the St. Lawrence Seaway, the Halifax Shipyards and Vancouver's SkyTrain. (Mark Blinch/The Canadian Press) Before a decision can officially be made, the minister must be formally notified about the impending transaction. That has still not happened yet, in this case. As has been previously reported, CCCC International has been banned from bidding on World Bank construction projects, for its role in a bid-rigging scheme in the Philippines. The Conservatives are echoing calls for the Liberals to move slowly and carefully.  ?"Canada's Conservatives believe that foreign transactions involving Canadian companies should only be approved if the transaction is in the best interest of Canadians," said innovation, science and economic development critic Maxime Bernier in a statement to CBC News.  He accused the Liberals of not taking these "sensitive transactions seriously." NAFTA insights Lu confirmed that China is following the NAFTA renegotiation process closely and that it hopes an agreement can be reached. The ambassador says China is looking to support multilateralism, and that it has much in common with Canada on that front.  The comments come ahead of the fifth round of trade talks between Canada, the United States, and Mexico, which begin next week.  China will not hurt Canada-US relationship: Trudeau ABOUT THE AUTHOR Katie Simpson Politics Katie Simpson is a foreign correspondent with CBC News based in Washington. Prior to joining the team in D.C. she spent six years covering Parliament Hill in Ottawa and nearly a decade covering local and provincial issues in Toronto. Follow @CBCKatie on Twitter More from Katie Simpson With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Chinese bid for Aecon construction comes with warnings for Trudeau Liberals Chinese construction firm CCCI to buy Canada's Aecon for $1.5B Grouse Mountain Resort's Chinese investor 'silent,' says new Canadian owner China sees free trade with Canada as way to avoid future Norsat-like uncertainty Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now