Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World North Korea reopens cross-border hotline with South Korea North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has reopened a key cross-border hotline with South Korea for the first time in nearly two years, as the rivals explored the possibility of sitting down and talking after months of acrimony and fears of war. Social Sharing Panmunjom communication channel had been suspended since February 2016 The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 03, 2018 6:46 AM ET | Last Updated: January 3, 2018 A South Korean government official checks the direct communications hotline to talk with the North Korean side at the border village of Panmunjom in Paju, South Korea, on Wednesday. (Yonhap via Associated Press) North Korean leader Kim Jong-un reopened a key cross-border hotline with South Korea for the first time in nearly two years on Wednesday as the rivals explored the possibility of sitting down and talking after months of acrimony and fears of war. The sudden signs of easing animosity, however, came as U.S. President Donald Trump threatened Kim with nuclear war in response to his threat earlier this week. In his New Year's Day address Monday, Kim said he was willing to send a delegation to next month's Winter Olympics in South Korea. But he also said he has a "nuclear button" on his desk and that all U.S. territory is within striking distance, comments Trump latched onto Tuesday when he boasted of a bigger and more powerful "nuclear button" than Kim's. 'I too have a nuclear button,' Trump warns Kim Jong-un Kim Jong-un says 'the entire United States within range of our nuclear weapons' The two leaders exchanged crude insults last year, as the North received new UN sanctions over its sixth and most powerful nuclear test explosion and a series of intercontinental ballistic missile launches. The recent softening of contact between the rival Koreas may show a shared interest in improved ties, but there's no guarantee tensions will ease. There have been repeated attempts in recent years by the rivals to talk, but even when they do meet, the efforts often end in recriminations and stalemate. Critics wary Outside critics say Kim may be trying to use better ties with South Korea as a way to weaken the alliance between Washington and Seoul as the North grapples with toughened international sanctions over its nuclear and missile programs. Kim's latest announcement, which was read by a senior Pyongyang official on state TV, followed a South Korean offer on Tuesday of high-level talks with North Korea to find ways to co-operate on next month's Winter Olympics in the South and discuss other inter-Korean issues. North Korea's leader Kim Jong-un said during a New Year's Day speech in Pyongyang that he was willing to send a delegation to next month's Winter Olympics in South Korea, but also said he has a "nuclear button" on his desk and all U.S. territory is within striking distance. (KCNA/Reuters) Ri Son Gwon, chairman of the state-run Committee for the Peaceful Reunification, cited Kim as welcoming South Korea's overture and ordering officials to reopen a communication channel at the border village of Panmunjom. Ri also quoted Kim as ordering officials to promptly take substantial measures with South Korea out of a "sincere stand and honest attitude," according to the North's state TV and news agency. South Korea quickly welcomed Kim's decision and later confirmed that the two Koreas began preliminary contacts on the channel. During their 20-minute communication, liaison officials of the two Koreas exchanged their names and examined their communication lines to make sure they were working, according to Seoul's Unification Ministry. Since taking office last May, South Korea's liberal President Moon Jae-in has pushed hard to improve ties and resume stalled co-operation projects with North Korea. Pyongyang had not responded to his outreach until Kim's New Year's Day address. New leader in Seoul Relations between the Koreas soured under Moon's conservative predecessors, who responded to the North's expanding nuclear program with hardline measures. All major rapprochement projects were put on hold one by one, and the Panmunjom communication channel had been suspended since February 2016. Moon has joined U.S.-led international efforts to apply more pressure and sanctions on North Korea, but still favours dialogue as a way to resolve the nuclear standoff. The Trump administration says all options are on the table, including military measures against the North. Moon has repeatedly said he opposes any war on the Korean Peninsula. North Korea calls latest UN sanctions 'act of war' 'Madman' vs. 'dotard': Trump and Kim Jong-un trade insults, military threats Some observers believe these differences in views may have led Kim to think he could drive a wedge between Seoul and Washington. Talks could provide a temporary thaw in strained inter-Korean ties, but conservative critics worry that they may only earn the North time to perfect its nuclear weapons. After the Olympics, inter-Korean ties could become frosty again because the North has made it clear it has no intention of accepting international calls for nuclear disarmament and instead wants to bolster its weapons arsenal in the face of what it considers increasing U.S. threats, analysts say. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'I too have a nuclear button,' Trump warns Kim Jong-un Kim Jong-un says 'the entire United States within range of our nuclear weapons' 'Madman' vs. 'dotard': Trump and Kim Jong-un trade insults, military threats North Korea calls latest UN sanctions 'act of war' Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now