Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World North Korea expected to reopen cross-border communications North Korea said it will reopen a cross-border communication channel with South Korea, according to officials in Seoul, in a sign of easing animosity between the rival countries. Social Sharing Move follows South's offer of high-level talks on Winter Olympics The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 02, 2018 6:56 AM ET | Last Updated: January 3, 2018 South Korean President Moon Jae-in speaks during a cabinet meeting at the presidential Blue House in Seoul on Tuesday. South Korea on Tuesday offered high-level talks with rival North Korea to find ways to co-operate on next month's Winter Olympics in the South. (Kim Ju-hyoung/Yonhap via Associated Press) North Korea announced Wednesday that it will reopen a cross-border communication channel with South Korea, officials in Seoul said, another sign of easing animosity between the rivals after a year that saw the North conduct nuclear bomb and missile tests and both the Koreas and Washington issue threats of war. The announcement, which came on a North Korean state radio address monitored by Seoul, follows a South Korean offer on Tuesday of high-level talks with North Korea to find ways to co-operate on next month's Winter Olympics in the South. North Korean leader Kim Jong-un on Monday suggested that the North might send a delegation to the Pyeongchang Games. 'I too have a nuclear button,' Trump warns Kim Jong-un?? Daring defection of North Korean soldier captured in dramatic video Although the development is a positive sign that the Koreas are working toward improved ties, there's no guarantee that tensions will ease. There have been repeated attempts in recent years by the rivals to talk, and even when they do meet, the efforts often end in recriminations or stalemate. North Korea didn't say whether it would accept the South Korean offer for talks. The development also came amid a war of words between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump about each countries' nuclear arsenals.  The South Korean Unification Ministry, which monitors North Korea's state media, said the North planned to restore the communication channel at the border village of Panmunjom later Wednesday. Ri Son-gwon, chairman of the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification, made the announcement on Kim Jong-un's behalf, according Seoul's Unification Ministry. Ri said North Korea will try to engage with South Korea in a "sincere and careful" manner by "upholding the will of the supreme leader," in a reference to Kim, the ministry said. South Koreans watch a TV news program showing North Korean leader Kim Jong-un's New Year's Day speech at the Seoul Railway Station on Monday. (Lee Jin-man/Associated Press)   CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'I too have a nuclear button,' Trump warns Kim Jong-un Kim Jong-un says 'the entire United States within range of our nuclear weapons' Daring defection of North Korean soldier captured in dramatic video After Trump criticism, China says no illicit oil sales to North Korea Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now