Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Thunder Bay Northwestern Health Unit confirms 2nd case of COVID-19 in Kenora, Ont. The Northwestern Health Unit (NWHU) announced Wednesday a second case of COVID-19 has been confirmed in the Kenora, Ont., area. Social Sharing Health unit covers areas west of Thunder Bay to Manitoba; now has 16 total cases CBC News · Posted: Apr 22, 2020 11:43 AM ET | Last Updated: April 22, 2020 The Northwestern Health Unit has confirmed the second case of COVID-19 in the Kenora, Ont., area. (Patti Fairfield) The Northwestern Health Unit (NWHU) announced Wednesday a second case of COVID-19 has been confirmed in the Kenora, Ont., area. Officials with the NWHU, which covers the region west of Thunder Bay to the Manitoba border, said the individual is a close contact of a known case and was already self-isolating. COVID-19 test results in Kenora available within 48 hours "We are still behind in the curve here," says head of Northwestern Health Unit "Although daily connection was already being made with this individual as a contact, further in-depth investigation is underway to verify that all contacts are identified and are self-isolating as well, " NWHU officials stated in a Facebook post. The NWHU is encouraging people to assume COVID-19 is circulating in the community and to practise physical distancing, frequent hand washing, and regular disinfection of surfaces. Northwestern Health Unit reports 2 new COVID-19 cases in Atikokan related to Lac des Iles Mine As of April 22, there are 16 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the NWHU region, including an individual who has a primary residence in southern Ontario and has not returned to northwestern Ontario since contracting the virus while travelling internationally.???? CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories COVID-19 test results in Kenora available within 48 hours "We are still behind in the curve here," says head of Northwestern Health Unit Northwestern Health Unit reports 2 new COVID-19 cases in Atikokan related to Lac des Iles Mine Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now