Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia N.S. Liberal candidate looks to move past racist, sexist social media posts Jaime Battiste apologized on Monday at a Cape Breton University-sponsored debate. He says racist and sexist comments he made on Twitter between 2012 and 2013 were made "during a time of heartbreak and depression." Social Sharing Jaime Battiste, running in Sydney-Victoria, says he made comments 'during a time of heartbreak' Yvonne Leblanc-Smith · CBC News · Posted: Oct 07, 2019 7:23 PM AT | Last Updated: October 7, 2019 Jaime Battiste is the Liberal candidate in Sydney-Victoria. (Gary Mansfield/CBC) comments The Liberal candidate for Sydney-Victoria apologized on Monday at a Cape Breton University-sponsored debate on climate change for past racist and sexist social media posts. Jaime Battiste said the comments about Indigenous girls on drugs, needing a woman to do his laundry and mocking Chinese people were made "during a time of heartbreak and depression, and that's not a good time to use humour." Battiste posted the comments to Twitter in 2012 and 2013. He used his opening remarks to address what he called the elephant in the room. "One of the biggest things I am looking to do is apologize and take full responsibility for what I said and what I tweeted those years ago," he said. Battiste looks to move on from comments After the event, Battiste told reporters that he wanted to move on and talk about important issues in the election, such as the environment, the economy and health. Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau said his comments were unacceptable, but he's not removing Battiste as a candidate. Battiste said he appreciated the support. The Conservatives have said Battiste is not worthy to sit in the House of Commons. The NDP and Green candidates said they were disturbed by the tweets, but said it was up to constituents to decide on Battiste's political future. 'A journey of reconciliation' Battiste told Cape Breton University debate organizers he received death threats and was concerned about security at the event. He would not elaborate when questioned by reporters. "Sometimes all you can do in life is apologize and hope that people accept it," he said. "I think that's a journey of reconciliation." MORE TOP STORIES N.B. seafood giant vows change after hidden camera shows 'unacceptable' treatment of salmon Canning fire likely a case of arson, say RCMP Protesters arrested in Halifax and Toronto as climate action hits major Canadian cities ABOUT THE AUTHOR Yvonne Leblanc-Smith Yvonne LeBlanc-Smith has been reporting news in Cape Breton since 1981. You can follow her on Twitter @leblancsmith and reach her at yvonne.leblanc-smith@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now