Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Windsor Ont. says 950K free prescriptions filled for people under 25 since Jan. 1 The Ontario government said more than 950,000 prescriptions have been filled for children, teens and young adults for free through OHIP-plus since January 1st. Social Sharing Province began covering prescription drugs for kids, young adults on Jan. 1 The Canadian Press · Posted: Jan 30, 2018 7:28 AM ET | Last Updated: January 30, 2018 As of Jan. 1, the provincial government has covered the cost of prescription drugs for those under the age of 25. (Rick Bowmer/The Associated Press) The Ontario government said more than 950,000 prescriptions have been filled for children, teens and young adults for free through OHIP-plus since January 1st. The province said its move to provide free drug coverage to those aged 24 and younger is the largest expansion to medicare in Ontario in a generation. Free prescription drugs now available for anyone under 25 Free drugs for youth, no more doctor's notes: Here are changes coming to Ontario in 2018 More than 4,400 prescription drugs are covered, including asthma inhalers, drugs to treat depression, anxiety, epilepsy and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, antibiotics, insulin, diabetes test strips and birth control. Officials said all people have to do is present their Ontario health card number and a valid prescription at an Ontario pharmacy. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Free prescription drugs now available for anyone under 25 Free drugs for youth, no more doctor's notes: Here are changes coming to Ontario in 2018 Nationwide vaccine shortages could cause trouble for travellers Opioid users in Windsor say a safe injection site will save lives Pharmacy takes drastic security measures after recent robbery Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now