Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Ontario to shut down publicly funded schools for 2 weeks after March Break over COVID-19 concerns The Ontario government is closing all publicly funded schools across the province for two weeks following March Break due to concerns about COVID-19. Social Sharing All publicly funded schools will close from March 14 to April 5 CBC News · Posted: Mar 12, 2020 4:05 PM ET | Last Updated: March 13, 2020 Ontario has opted to close all publicly funded schools for two weeks following March Break amid concerns over COVID-19. (Travis Dolynny/CBC) The Ontario government is closing all publicly funded schools across the province for two weeks following March Break due to concerns about COVID-19. Doug Ford's government said in a statement the move is "necessary to keep people safe" and based on the advice of Dr. David Williams, Ontario's chief medical officer of health. Schools will be closed from March 14 to April 5. "We recognize the significant impact this decision will have on families, students, schools, as well as the broader community, but this precaution is necessary to keep people safe," the premier's office said in a statement. In an earlier news conference, Ontario health officials stopped short of discouraging people from travelling during March Break, but did ask anyone returning from travel to avoid public or group gatherings and to monitor themselves for symptoms. Ontario now has 60 confirmed cases of COVID-19. Here's what you need to know 'You can't stop living': Toronto doctor warns against becoming 'paralyzed' with fear over COVID-19 Speaking Thursday afternoon, Education Minister Stephen Lecce told reporters that following the two-week period, the province will evaluate to see what other measures might be required.  "As we head into March Break, it is clear there will be an increased travel and exposure to the virus to families. I want every parent and family to know with confidence that when their child returns to school, they will be safe," Lecce said. Ontario Education Minister Stephen Lecce says that following the two-week period, the province will evaluate to see what other measures might be required. (Evan Mitsui/CBC) In the meantime, the province will be providing schools with extra sanitation resources and personal hygiene products, he said.  Lecce also said a plan is being finalized to ensure learning continues during this period, but did not provide specifics, saying announcements will be made in the coming days. He did not say whether those plans might entail e-learning programming or if the school year might be extended. The extended break will not apply to daycares in schools, a spokesperson for Lecce said, though individual school boards may decide to close them. It's not yet clear how other school-based programs or school functions might be affected. Daycares in the province, however, are being encouraged to screen for the virus by asking parents if their child is unwell and if they have travelled in the last 14 days. Williams recommends that if the answer to either of those questions is yes, daycares should ask parents to keep their children at home for 14 days. Ontario has 60 cases of COVID-19, with 18 cases, including one infant, being confirmed earlier today. March Break: What to think about before you travel amid the COVID-19 outbreak CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now