Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Ontario PCs appoint candidates in 11 ridings weeks out from election Ontario Progressive Conservatives have appointed candidates to 11 provincial ridings that didn't have nomination meetings scheduled before the June 7 election. Social Sharing The PCs nomination process has been plagued by scandal and internal strife CBC News · Posted: Apr 21, 2018 1:46 PM ET | Last Updated: April 23, 2018 Ontario PC Leader Doug Ford announced Saturday that the party has appointed candidates in 11 ridings, in which no nomination meeting was scheduled before campaign season. (Chris Young/Canadian Press) Ontario's Progressive Conservatives have appointed candidates to 11 provincial ridings that didn't have nomination meetings scheduled before the June 7 election. "Help is on the way. We are only 47 days away from defeating Kathleen Wynne's government and giving Ontario the change it needs," said PC Leader Doug Ford in a statement issued Saturday afternoon.  This year's provincial election will be the first with Ontario divided into 124 ridings — up from the 107 ridings that made up the former electoral map.  Poll Tracker: Final polls show Doug Ford's PCs narrowly ahead Ontario PCs overturn two controversial nominations in Scarborough and Ottawa Below are the ridings filled by the PCs on Saturday and the candidates who will represent the party in each: Algoma-Manitoulin: Jib Turner. Barrie-Springwater-Oro-Medonte: Doug Downey. Guelph: Ray Ferraro. Kitchener-Conestoga: Mike Harris, Jr. London West: Andrew Lawton. Ottawa Centre: Colleen McCleery. Scarborough Centre: Christina Mitas. Scarborough Guildwood: Roshan Nallaratnam. Scarborough Southwest: Gary Ellis. Toronto Centre: Meredith Cartwright. Toronto-St Paul's: Andrew Kirsch. Ford also congratulated Tanya Granic Allen, the former PC leadership candidate, on Saturday evening after she secured the nomination in Mississauga Centre.  The announcements nearly conclude a gruelling, and at times, deeply controversial nomination process for the party that began under former leader Patrick Brown. More than a dozen of the 56 nomination battles fought during Brown's leadership tenure ended with party members alleging irregularities. Party overturns Ottawa West-Nepean PC nomination Ontario PCs 'set aside' nomination for Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas In March, the PCs overturned nominations in three ridings and decided to hold an entirely new vote in the riding of Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas following what were deemed credible allegations of ballot-stuffing. At the same time, the PCs revealed that Brown — despite having been cleared to run in a quickly-abandoned leadership bid after his ouster — would be barred from running in the new riding of Barrie-Springwater-Oro-Medonte. Meanwhile, in February, then-interim leader Vic Fedeli overturned nominations in two other ridings, including Scarborough Centre, which was only filled with Ford's Saturday announcement.  'Brazen abuse of power' Ford's move to unilaterally appoint candidates was met with outrage in some corners of the party.  Jake Skinner, a trustee with the Thames Valley public school board who intended to run for the nomination in London West, said in a statement that he is "in a state of shock" and it was a "sad day for the grassroots." It just got personal: PC supporters, Liberals roll out pre-election attack ads This polling shows just how tough it will be for Kathleen Wynne's Liberals to get re-elected In the message posted to Twitter, Skinner said he'd been preparing his candidacy for two years, a process that was "disruptive and costly" to his personal life.  "That the party would bypass a nomination and appoint a candidate who declared his nomination candidacy only 10 days ago is clearly disrespectful to our grassroots members and represents a brazen abuse of power," Skinner said. Harris Jr. hopes to replaces Harris Meanwhile, among Saturday's appointed candidates was Mike Harris Jr. He is the son of former Ontario premier Mike Harris, who led a Tory government in the province for nearly seven years, from 1995 to 2002. Harris Jr. has been appointed to represent the PCs in the riding of Kitchener-Conestoga — a seat currently held by a politician with a strikingly similar name. Michael Harris — no relation to Harris Jr. — announced earlier this month he would not be running for re-election in that riding due to medical reasons. He was later booted from the Tory caucus amid allegations of harassment from a former intern. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Poll Tracker: Final polls show Doug Ford's PCs narrowly ahead Ontario PCs overturn two controversial nominations in Scarborough and Ottawa Party overturns Ottawa West-Nepean PC nomination Ontario PCs 'set aside' nomination for Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas Kathleen Wynne compares Doug Ford to Donald Trump, saying he 'traffics in smears and lies' It just got personal: PC supporters, Liberals roll out pre-election attack ads Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now