Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Ontario's 7th case of coronavirus reported in man who travelled to Iran A seventh person in Ontario has tested positive for coronavirus, health officials said Friday. Social Sharing Man in his 50s recently travelled to Iran CBC News · Posted: Feb 28, 2020 11:13 AM ET | Last Updated: February 28, 2020 A public bus driver, right, and commuters wear masks to help guard against the coronavirus in downtown Tehran, Iran. The virus has killed 34 people and infected at least 338 more in the country. (Ebrahim Noroozi/The Associated Press) comments A seventh person in Ontario has tested positive for coronavirus, the province's ministry of health said Friday. The man in his 50s recently travelled to Iran and is now at home in self-isolation, the ministry said in a statement. He first went to the emergency department at Toronto's Sunnybrook Hospital on Wednesday after arriving back to the city a day earlier. He was treated using the "established infection prevention" plan and sent home the same day, the ministry said. 'We're at a decisive point': Hospitals ramp up pandemic plans for COVID-19 COVID-19 outbreak: Here's what's happening around the world Friday There are currently four active COVID-19 cases in Ontario. Three other people who had the illness have since been cleared. Provincial health officials are scheduled to provide an update to the public on Monday afternoon. This marks Canada's 14th confirmed instance of coronavirus, with the other seven in British Columbia, and Quebec announced its first presumptive positive case Thursday. WATCH: Infectious disease doctor explains what's happening with global spread of COVID-19 Infectious disease doctor explains what's happening with COVID-19 The National1 year ago 2:18Infectious disease specialist Dr. Isaac Bogoch looks at the implications of COVID-19's global reach and asymptomatic transmission of the disease. 2:18 Timeline of Ontario COVID-19 cases: Jan. 25, 2020: A man in his 50s who arrived in Toronto from Wuhan, China, the epicentre of the outbreak, becomes the first "presumptive" case of the new coronavirus in Canada. The man called 911 as soon as he got sick with relatively minor symptoms and was placed in isolation in Toronto's Sunnybrook Hospital. Jan. 26, 2020: The wife of the Toronto man who was Canada's first "presumptive" case of the new coronavirus becomes the second presumptive case. The woman is kept in home isolation. Jan. 27, 2020: The National Microbiology Lab in Winnipeg confirms that a man in quarantine in Sunnybrook Hospital is Canada's first documented case of the new coronavirus. Jan 28, 2020: Health authorities confirm Canada's second case of the novel coronavirus. The woman had recently travelled to Wuhan with her husband, who was the first case confirmed in Canada. Jan. 31, 2020: Toronto man hospitalized with the novel coronavirus is well enough to go home. Sunnybrook Hospital says he'll continue to recover at home, where his wife is also in self-isolation. Jan. 31, 2020: Ontario's third case of the new coronavirus is confirmed. The patient, a woman in her 20s, had travelled to the affected area in China. The London university student initially tested negative for the virus, but a subsequent test at the national lab in Winnipeg was positive. Health officials say her symptoms are Minor. Feb. 12, 2020: Ontario health officials say the woman from London, Ont., no longer has the novel coronavirus in her system. It marks the first time a case of the illness has been resolved in Canada. Feb. 21, 2020: The last known case of coronavirus in Ontario is resolved. Feb. 23, 2020: Officials in Toronto announce Ontario has a new case of coronavirus — the fourth to be diagnosed in the province. The woman arrived in Toronto from China several days earlier. Feb. 26, 2020: Ontario officials announce a fifth diagnosis in the province: a woman in her 60s who recently travelled to Iran. Feb. 28, 2020: Ontario reports a seventh confirmed case — a man in his 50s who had travelled to Iran. The man arrived in Toronto on Tuesday, Feb. 25 and went to the emergency department of Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre the next day. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'We're at a decisive point': Hospitals ramp up pandemic plans for COVID-19 COVID-19 outbreak: Here's what's happening around the world Friday Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now