Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Canada Ontario's new sex ed curriculum 'the most up-to-date' in the country Come September, teachers across Ontario can sit down with their students with a revamped sexual-education curriculum that finally brings the province up to date with the rest of Canada and no longer leaves them “in the dark.” Social Sharing Grades 1 to 12 curriculum addresses sexual orientation, sexting and consent Trinh Theresa Do · CBC News · Posted: Feb 25, 2015 2:41 PM ET | Last Updated: February 26, 2015 Topical issues included in Ontario's new curriculum such as sexting, consent and sexual orientation mean the province will have the most up-to-date sexual-health education in Canada, according to an expert. (Reuters) comments Come September, teachers across Ontario can sit down with their students with a revamped sexual-education curriculum that finally brings the province up to date with the rest of the country and no longer leaves them "in the dark.” Ontario’s curriculum hadn’t been renewed since 1998, making it the oldest in Canada. Ontario is the only province that hadn’t made updates since the millennium. New Ontario sex-ed curriculum ready for September New Ontario sex-ed curriculum to include look at sexting risks Pornography, kids and sex education: what to do? Alex McKay of the Sex Information and Education Council of Canada said the new program is a "significant move” toward bringing Ontario in line with some of the other provinces in providing sexual-health education "that young people not only need, but have a right to have access to.” "And because the new education curriculum is just being released now, in terms of its inclusion of currently relevant topics such as consent, sexting and so forth, it’ll be the most up-to-date curriculum in the country,” McKay said.  Issues like gender identity, like lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans sexualities, sexual activity amongst young people — these are all hard conversations for all teachers to have.- Jen Gilbert, of York University's faculty of education Other key components of the new curriculum include education about sharing explicit content online, sexual orientation and gender identity. "The curriculum is going to help teachers feel supported as they talk with young people about sexual health,” said Jen Gilbert, graduate program director at York University’s faculty of education. "When the introduction of the new curriculum a few years ago was cancelled, I think that teachers have felt a little bit alone and in the dark about what they can and can’t talk about and also not feeling like they had a lot of resources to address the contemporary realities of young people’s lives,” she said. Not just the 'plumbing' of sex The new curriculum mandates that students in Grade 4 be taught the risks associated with communications technology, including sharing sexual photos or personal information and cyberbullying, and strategies to use the technologies safely. Grade 5 students get a bit more in-depth on what’s appropriate in relationships. "Sharing private sexual photos or posting sexual comments online is unacceptable and also illegal," the curriculum says. A rebooted sexual-education curriculum, however, may not necessarily make for easy teaching. Experts caution that there are still a number of hurdles. Ontario's new sex-ed curriculum has sparked multiple protests at Queen's Park in recent months. (Darren Calabrese/Canadian Press) Miriam Kaufman, a pediatrician and head of adolescent medicine at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, said the broader aspects of sexual health are harder to teach than "the plumbing,” or mechanics of sexual intercourse. "And we no longer have the resources in public health for every classroom to have a public health nurse come to do sex-health education, which is too bad because they have a lot of skill,” said Kaufman, who has also taught sexual health on a volunteer basis for Grade 5 and 6 classes in schools in Ontario. Carolyn Temertzoglou, a health and physical education instructor at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education at the University of Toronto, said "prompts,” or example dialogues between teachers and students, can guide an elementary generalist teacher who may have minimal training in the subject. As it stands, she said, the number of hours of teacher training for elementary health and physical education varies from 12 to 36 across the province. "Clearly more time is needed to provide more comprehensive teacher training to prepare beginning teachers to teach these sensitive and challenging topics,” she wrote in an email to CBC News. Balance with positive sex messaging Novice teachers, yes, but York University’s Gilbert said current teachers need a chance to talk about the possibilities of the new curriculum as well —  to broach worries and hesitations in a supportive, professional learning environment. That also helps teachers develop strategies among themselves, she said, before they’re asked to discuss the material with children and youth. "Issues like gender identity, like lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans sexualities, sexual activity amongst young people — these are all hard conversations for all teachers to have,” she said. I have this absolute conviction that the vast majority, if not all, parents would like their children to grow up to be sexually healthy adults.- Miriam Kaufman, pediatrician at the Hospital for Sick Children Sex education has to be more than just a curriculum document, a single class or unit, Gilbert said, and actually become part of the conversation in schools with young people. McKay, of the education council, wants sex education, which he said focuses on problem prevention, to take another step. "We need to make sure that that’s balanced off with a positive message that recognizes that sexuality and sexual health are important, positive aspects of who we are as human beings and they are a central and positive aspect of good healthy relationships,” he said. "People who are taught about that balance will be able to go forward in life feeling much more empowered to take action to promote their sexual health, as compared to someone who has only been bombarded with negative messages about all the problems associated with sexuality.” Kids are ready With the Institute of Catholic Education, which works on behalf of the Assembly of Catholic Bishops of Ontario, on board with the curriculum, and Education Minister Liz Sandals standing firm, the new program is here to stay — even in the face of rallies hosted by distressed parents and ardent opponents. "People think about the kind of bad sex ed that they probably had in high school and they think about that being delivered to little children and obviously that’s not what’s going to happen,” said the Hospital for Sick Children’s Kaufman. CBC Archives | Take 30: Sex education in the schools "I have this absolute conviction that the vast majority, if not all, parents would like their children to grow up to be sexually healthy adults. They don’t want their kids to have all kinds of hang-ups and hate their bodies and expose themselves to risk because they don’t understand about sexuality. I really don’t think that’s what parents want.” Perhaps what’s most important to keep in mind is that students are ready. "Kids are asking all kinds of questions about their bodies, about gender, about what they see out there in the world,” said Kaufman. "They will mainly respond positively. I think the kids who respond the most negatively are the ones who need it the most.” CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories New Ontario sex-ed curriculum ready for September New Ontario sex ed curriculum to include look at sexting risks Pornography, kids and sex education: what to do? CBC Archives | Take 30: Sex education in the schools External Links Read Ontario's new health and physical education curriculum Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now