Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto·Recap Ontario PC leadership candidates talk sex ed, tax cuts in 1st debate The four candidates hoping to lead Ontario's Progressive Conservative party into the spring election were asked about their stances on sex ed curriculum, marijuana privatization and how to pay for tax cuts the party is promising during their first debate. Social Sharing Christine Elliott, Tanya Granic Allen, Doug Ford and Caroline Mulroney duel in Toronto debate CBC News · Posted: Feb 15, 2018 3:11 PM ET | Last Updated: February 15, 2018 The candidates battling to lead the Ontario PC party are, from left: Christine Elliott, Tanya Granic Allen, Doug Ford and Caroline Mulroney. (The Canadian Press/Drafttanya.com) The four candidates hoping to lead Ontario's Progressive Conservative Party into the spring election were asked about their stances on sex ed curriculum, marijuana privatization and how to pay for tax cuts the party is promising during their first debate on Thursday.  Caroline Mulroney, Doug Ford, Christine Elliott and Tanya Granic Allen went head to head on the issues, and got more heated as things went on. The debate, one of two scheduled for this last-minute leadership race, was held at TVO's headquarters in Toronto. On mobile? Follow the live blog here Why Mulroney has most at stake in debate Here are some of the highlights from the debate, and some early reaction to the candidates' plans.  Skip Scribble CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Why Caroline Mulroney has the most at stake in PC leadership debate Analysis Ontario PCs can win in Toronto with Doug Ford — and probably without him Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now