Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Ontario government cancels $100M school repair fund Ontario's new Tory government has cancelled a $100-million fund earmarked for school repairs this year, a cut that comes as a result of Doug Ford's campaign promise to scrap the province's cap-and-trade system. Social Sharing School boards notified on July 3 that Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund would be eliminated The Canadian Press · Posted: Jul 10, 2018 6:48 AM ET | Last Updated: July 10, 2018 Ontario's new Tory government has cancelled a $100 million fund earmarked for school repairs this year. (Andy Hincenbergs/CBC) Ontario's new Tory government has cancelled a $100-million fund earmarked for school repairs this year, a cut that comes as a result of Doug Ford's campaign promise to scrap the province's cap-and-trade system. AnalysisWhat the carbon pricing future looks like in Doug Ford's Ontario Doug Ford is officially ending Ontario's cap-and-trade plan, but what's next? School boards were notified on July 3 that the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund would be eliminated and that only work contracted on or before that date would be covered. The memo, obtained by The Canadian Press, advises school boards to stop spending the cash that was allocated in April immediately. "Please maintain detailed records of the contracts that have been signed as ministry staff will contact boards to collect information on the scope of the work underway," the memo said. Toronto District School Board chair Robin Pilkey said the move is disappointing because that board has a $4 billion repair backlog. The TDSB had budgeted $300 million for upkeep this fiscal year, including the $25 million it was awarded specifically from this fund, and now faces difficult choices, Pilkey said. "Losing $25 million is a big deal to us," she said. "Our repair backlog is so large that every piece counts. We'll have to make decisions in the next few weeks whether we don't do those projects or we take the money out of ... other funds and scrap something else." The board had planned to use the funding to repair windows, lighting and complete other mechanical work in its schools, she said. It's unlikely much of the money has been spent, however, because the board must hire contractors through the proper procurement process, which takes time, she said. "It's not like you get the money on May 1 and can spend it on May 15," she said. "It takes a while to get the money flowing." 'There was no discussion' The province has an approximate $15 billion repair backlog at its 4,900 publicly funded schools. Stephen Seaborn, spokesman for the education advocacy group Campaign for Public Education, said the cut will hurt schools across Ontario. "It's bad," he said. "It was done just like as if it was nothing. There was no discussion about what would be done about the budgets of the schools." Seaborn said the cancellation of cap and trade has clearly had unintended consequences and cutting funds for the renovation program is a prime example. "My message for the premier is watch what you do," he said. "It has huge implications for 2 million school kids across the province." Ford campaigned on a promised eliminate cap and trade and revoked the regulation laying out the program as one of his first acts after he was officially sworn in on June 29. NDP criticizes cut Ford's spokesman Simon Jefferies said the Tories received a strong mandate from voters to end cap and trade. "To ensure an orderly wind-down of programs funded through the cap-and-trade carbon tax, the government will honour arrangements where contracts have already been signed and orders have already been made," he said in a statement. "Decisions to continue any specific initiatives will be made on a case-by-case basis." NDP legislator Peggy Sattler said the Ford government's decision to cut the fund will hurt Ontario's children. "Kids finished the school year in sweltering classrooms, and by winter, they'll be wearing their coats and mittens at their desks," Sattler said in a statement. "There are water fountains that aren't safe to drink from and roofs that need to be replaced." Sattler said with a multi-billion repair backlog, Ontario's schools need investment, not cuts. "It's sad that there is no hope coming for kids and educators, and absolutely disgusting that our children's classrooms is one of the first places Doug Ford's axe is falling," she said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis What the carbon pricing future looks like in Doug Ford's Ontario Doug Ford is officially ending Ontario's cap-and-trade plan, but what's next? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now