Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Ontario's energy plan ignores provincial climate law, watchdog says Ontario's environmental watchdog says the Liberal government's long-term energy plan ignores its own climate change law and more must be done to shift the province from fossil fuels to low-carbon sources. Social Sharing Action needed to shift province from fossil fuels, says environment commissioner The Canadian Press · Posted: Apr 10, 2018 4:05 PM ET | Last Updated: April 10, 2018 Ontario Environment Commissioner Diane Saxe says the Liberal government's long-term energy plan ignores its own climate change law and more must be done to shift the province from fossil fuels to low-carbon sources. (Office of the Environmental Commissioner of Ontario) Ontario's environmental watchdog says the Liberal government's long-term energy plan ignores its own climate change law and more must be done to shift the province from fossil fuels to low-carbon sources. In her report on the province's energy conservation efforts, Environmental Commissioner Dianne Saxe says that Ontario's climate laws — which target reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 — would require a drop in fossil fuel use by 40 to 50 per cent in the next 13 years to meet that goal. Ontario has work to do to meet long-term climate change goals: report Canada, provinces lack clear plan to adapt to climate change, auditors say Saxe says that the province's long-term energy plan, which was released last fall, predicts stable demand for electricity but doesn't spell out how it will reduce fossil fuel use. She says that in order to meet that goal the province will need to shift away from fossil fuel used in some cars and trucks, and from home heating using fossil fuels to electricity. The report praises the government's role in cleaning up Ontario's electricity system by ending coal-fired power, but it acknowledges that those efforts have resulted in an increase in costs for ratepayers. (CBC) Saxe praises the government's role in cleaning up Ontario's electricity system by ending coal-fired power, but the report acknowledges that it has resulted in an increase in costs for ratepayers. Saxe says the move away from coal-fired power has helped reduce the number of smog days every year and the health impacts associated with air pollution.     CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Ontario has work to do to meet long-term climate change goals: report Canada, provinces lack clear plan to adapt to climate change, auditors say B.C. should copy Ontario's new climate-change liability bill, says environmental lawyer Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now