Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Ontario PC leadership hopeful Doug Ford vows to review province's sex-ed curriculum Standing in front of a shuttered Etobicoke high school with ties to his late brother, Ontario Progressive Conservative leadership candidate Doug Ford vowed to revisit the province's sex-ed curriculum if he becomes head of the official opposition and then premier following the upcoming election. Social Sharing Former Toronto councillor blasts Liberals' guidelines, calling its rollout in 2015 'totally unacceptable' Ieva Lucs · CBC News · Posted: Feb 12, 2018 6:06 PM ET | Last Updated: February 13, 2018 Ontario Progressive Conservative leadership candidate Doug Ford promised to revamp the province's sex-ed program outside the shuttered Don Bosco Catholic Secondary School in Etobicoke on Monday. (Sue Goodspeed/CBC) Standing in front of a shuttered Etobicoke high school with ties to his late brother, Ontario Progressive Conservative leadership candidate Doug Ford vowed to revisit the province's sex-ed curriculum if he becomes head of the official opposition and then premier following the upcoming election.  "Sex-ed curriculum should be about facts, not teaching Liberal ideology," he told reporters on Monday outside Don Bosco Catholic Secondary School. "Parents should have the final say in what they want to teach their kids past this point." "The sex-ed curriculum should be about facts, not teaching Liberal ideology." <br>Here's Doug Ford's statement on sex-ed and math in Ontario schools. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/pcpo?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#pcpo</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/onpoli?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#onpoli</a> <a href="https://t.co/nSKMoh96x7">pic.twitter.com/nSKMoh96x7</a>&mdash;@CBCQueensPark The former Toronto city councillor blasted the province's controversial sex-ed program for Grades 1 to 12, calling how the Liberals rolled it out in 2015 "totally unacceptable."  Under the current sex-ed guidelines, students in Grade 1 learn the proper names for body parts. Grade 2 students are taught about the broad concept of consents by being told that no means no. Concepts of gender identity are introduced in Grade 3, though the curriculum doesn't get explicit and positions sexual orientation as one of the potential qualities that distinguish people from one another. Discussions ?about puberty start in Grade 4 and Grade 5, while education about intercourse takes place the following year. Masturbation and "gender expression" are taught in Grade 6, while kids in Grades 7 and 8 discuss contraception, anal and oral sex, preventing pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections. These changes prompted some parents to protest by keeping their children out of school. Ford said the consultations with parents were "insufficient" and the Progressive Conservative party under former leader Patrick Brown, "refused to consult its own members" and "stonewalled the debate of the issue." Ford cites membership system as a key decider in PC leadership race Ontario PCs announce 'open, transparent' voting process In 2016, Brown came under fire within his own party for changing his mind on the new program and eventually supporting it. Brown resigned as leader Jan. 25 after two women accused him of sexual misconduct. He denies the accusations. The opposition party decided soon afterward to hold a leadership race, even though the next provincial election is just four months away. Ford joins former MPP Christine Elliott, and lawyer Caroline Mulroney as candidates.  Christine Elliott, Doug Ford and Caroline Mulroney have all thrown their hats in the ring to become leader of Ontario's Progressive Conservatives. (Chris Young, Justin Tang/Canadian Press) Ford also said he would "revisit curricular documents in all core subjects." He referenced a report put out in August by Ontario's Education Quality and Accountability Office, which showed only 50 per cent of Grade 6 students met the standard for mathematics for the second straight year. "Something is broken at the province and we need to fix it," he said. "Ontario's education system is setting up our children for failure, when we should be the force to be reckoned with around the world." Corrections An earlier version of this story reported that Doug Ford referred to Ontario's sex-ed curriculum as "totally unacceptable." In fact, he was commenting on how it was rolled out. Feb 13, 2018 12:55 PM ET CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 'Heartbreaking' goodbye at Don Bosco Catholic Secondary School Video Rob Ford a 'father figure' to football team at Don Bosco Ontario sex ed curriculum: 5 things to know Sex-ed curriculum protesters to keep children out of school Ford cites membership system as a key decider in PC leadership race Ontario PCs announce 'open, transparent' voting process Patrick Brown admits he was 'mistaken' on sex-ed curriculum after emails show he vowed to repeal it Half of Grade 6 students failed to meet province's math standard for 2nd year Former Ontario PC leader Patrick Brown blasts accusers in new Facebook post Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now