Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Ottawa Ottawa doctor pens nursery rhyme to teach proper handwashing An Ottawa doctor is trying to stop the spread of germs by teaching kids, and adults for that matter, how to wash hands effectively by reworking the nursery rhyme, Frère Jacques. Social Sharing From 'thumb attack' to 'between the fingers,' song aims to boost public health Laura Glowacki · CBC News · Posted: Dec 17, 2019 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: December 17, 2019 Nisha Thampi (right), infectious disease physician at CHEO, and her daughter Lekha Villeneuve (left), demonstrating the "thumb attack." (Haneen Al-Hassoun/CBC ) comments An Ottawa doctor has turned to song to teach kids — and adults, for that matter — how to wash their hands to prevent the spread of germs. Dr. Nisha Thampi, an infectious disease physician at CHEO, the area's children's hospital, created a video set to the tune of Frère Jacques and featuring the six-step handwashing method recommended by the World Health Organization. Thampi's 25-second rendition, which was co-authored by her daughter and Dr. Yves Longtin, an infectious disease specialist at the Jewish General Hospital in Montreal, is featured in the December issue of The BMJ, or British Medical Journal.  Thampi said as an infectious disease physician and a mother of two, she thinks a lot about germs at home and school. "I was trying to find a fun way to remember the stuff," she said. "There are six steps that have been codified by the World Health Organization, but they're complex and hard to remember."  Watch the handwashing video below, or here: Thampi said she came up with the idea to rewrite the lyrics to the nursery rhyme on World Hand Hygiene Day in May, when she was thinking about how to help people remember the technique.  She said studies have shown that handwashing is effective in reducing the risk of diarrhea-related illnesses and respiratory diseases.  "So I'd say it's one of the most important and easiest things we can do." The video includes such often-overlooked steps as "wash the back," "twirl the tips around" and "thumb attack," which pays special attention to the first digit. Six steps to handwashing, sung to the tune of Frère Jacques or Brother John: Scrub your palms. Between the fingers. Wash the back, wash the back. Twirl the tips around. Scrub them upside down. Thumb attack, thumb attack. Thampi's aim is to help people develop hand hygiene muscle memory, correct bad habits and make public health gains, starting with kids, CHEO says.  Proper handwashing can reduce the transmission of colds by up to 21 per cent; it can cut school absenteeism due to stomach illness by as much as 57 per cent; and it can reduce diarrhea cases by up to 40 per cent, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control. The Canadian Pediatric Society also recommends regular handwashing, especially before preparing or eating food and after using the toilet, wiping or blowing your nose, cleaning the house or handling pets. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error External Links Wash your hands, Brother John!, The BMJ Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now