Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Over 6,700 Rohingya killed in a single month, Doctors Without Borders estimates International aid group Doctors Without Borders said its field survey has found at least 6,700 Rohingya Muslims were killed between August and September in a crackdown by Myanmar's security forces. Social Sharing August-September estimate does not include hundreds of other deaths not attributed to violence The Associated Press · Posted: Dec 14, 2017 8:42 AM ET | Last Updated: December 14, 2017 A Rohingya refugee baby sits at the entrance of his family's temporary shelter at the Onchiprang refugee camp near Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, on Wednesday. (Alkis Konstaninidis/Reuters) International aid group Doctors Without Borders said its field survey has found at least 6,700 Rohingya Muslims were killed between August and September in a crackdown by Myanmar's security forces. The group, known by its French acronym MSF, said in a statement made available Thursday that it conducted the survey in refugee camps in Bangladesh. It estimated at least 9,000 Rohingya had died of various causes in Myanmar's Rakhine state between Aug. 25 and Sept. 24, and that more than 70 per cent of the deaths were the result of violence. CBC InvestigatesDid the UN ignore warnings of ethnic cleansing of Rohingya in Myanmar? Myanmar security forces may be guilty of genocide against Rohingya: UN According to MSF, the dead included at least 730 children younger than five. More than 630,000 Rohingya Muslims have fled Buddhist-majority Myanmar into Bangladesh to escape what the United Nations has called "ethnic cleansing." "The peak in deaths coincides with the launch of the latest 'clearance operations' by Myanmar security forces in the last week of August," MSF medical director Sidney Wong said in a statement. She said the findings were staggering, both in terms of the numbers of people who reported a family member dead as a result of violence and the horrific ways in which they said they were killed or severely injured. MSF said that among children below five years old, more than 59 per cent who were killed during that period were reportedly shot, 15 per cent were burnt to death in their homes, seven per cent were beaten to death and two per cent died due to land mine blasts. Belief the toll is underestimated Myanmar's Information Ministry has said 400 people died following attacks by a militant Rohingya group on police posts on Aug. 25. It said most of the 400 were "extremist terrorists" who died during military "clearance operations." International aid and rights groups have accused the military of arson, killings and rapes of Rohingya villagers. Myanmar authorities have blamed Rohingya militants for the violence. PhotosFor Rohingya, escaping to Bangladesh poses new challenges Canada's response to Rohingya humanitarian crisis tops $50M More than one million ethnic Rohingya Muslims have lived in Myanmar, also known as Burma, for generations. They have been stripped of their citizenship, denied almost all rights and labelled stateless. Since the Myanmar's military conducted operations against the Rohingya in Rakhine state, the civilian government has barred most journalists, international observers and humanitarian aid workers from independently travelling to the region. MSF said the number of deaths is likely to be an underestimation "as we have not surveyed all refugee resettlements in Bangladesh and because the surveys don't account for the families who never made it out of Myanmar." Canada's ambassador to Myanmar gives shocking first-hand account of Rohingya refugee crisis The National3 years ago 1:56Canada's ambassador to Myanmar described scenes of horrific violence and devastation after touring parts of the country by helicopter 1:56 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 2 Reuters journalists arrested in Myanmar face official secrets charges Pope apologizes to Rohingya refugees for 'indifference of the world' Rohingya subjected to 'dehumanizing apartheid': Amnesty International Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now