Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Ottawa Party overturns Ottawa West-Nepean PC nomination The long-contested nomination for the Progressive Conservatives in Ottawa West-Nepean has been overturned, the party has ruled. Social Sharing Riding executives had resigned due to controversial nomination CBC News · Posted: Feb 09, 2018 9:59 PM ET | Last Updated: February 10, 2018 Karma MacGregor and her supporters have been campaigning since she won a controversial nomination race in Ottawa-West Nepean in May 2017. The party ruled late Friday that her controversial nomination would be overturned. (Facebook) The long-contested nomination for the Progressive Conservatives in Ottawa West-Nepean has been overturned. The nomination contest in May 2017 elected Karma Macgregor to carry the party's banner in this year's election, but almost immediately party members said there were irregularities and demanded a new contest. The riding association's entire executive resigned over the nomination after former PC leader Patrick Brown intervened in the appeal process and appointed Macgregor as the candidate. PC leadership hopefuls take heat in Ottawa Investigate fake party memberships, Ottawa PCs urge Clean-up 'corruption', allow new nominations, PC party members urge Allan Cutler was among those who resigned from the local riding association executive. He said riding associations across the province were disenfranchised by nomination contests that had serious irregularities and the decision to hold a new vote is a good move. "I think it is an excellent move when you look at what was going on around the province," he said. The party also announced the nomination would be re-opened in Scarborough Centre, a Toronto riding. Cutler said he had a lot of concerns about the way the nomination was run last year and he's thrilled the party is letting a new contest take place.   "Suffice it to say there were major irregularities and I think a fair and open nomination process is the greatest thing on Earth." He also commended the party's interim leader Vic Fedeli for cleaning up the party and staying out of the leadership race.  Roberts to run again Jeremy Roberts, who challenged Macgregor for the nomination last year, released a statement welcoming the news. "Today, I feel more optimistic than ever that the future for our party and our province is bright. I look forward to doing my part in this important work," he said. Roberts has announced he will run again for the PC nomination, in a news statement released Saturday. "We are cleaning up our party so that Ontarians can have faith in our ability to put forward a government of integrity," he said in the release. "I look forward to a fair, open and honest contest." Macgregor unavailable Macgregor could not be reached for comment late Friday evening, but issued a statement earlier Friday with three other candidates when the nomination contests were being reviewed.  "Along with our fellow Ontario PC Candidates, we have worked hard since our nomination knocking on thousands of doors promoting the principles of the Ontario PC Party in our ridings. Our dedication to the Party stems from our belief in these very principles, as well as the importance of diversity and inclusivity. And yet sadly today, we find more women are being targeted unfairly." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now