Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Patrick Brown resurfaces on social media, vowing 'truth will come out' over sexual misconduct allegations Patrick Brown emerges for the first time on social media since his departure as leader of Ontario's Progressive Conservatives over sexual misconduct allegations, tweeting "the truth will come out." Social Sharing Former Ontario PC leader emerges for 1st time since his resignation with a Twitter statement CBC News · Posted: Feb 06, 2018 3:23 PM ET | Last Updated: February 6, 2018 Former Progressive Conservative leader Patrick Brown issued a statement on Twitter Tuesday for the first time since his exit over sexual misconduct allegations. (Aaron Vincent Elkaim/Canadian Press) Patrick Brown emerged for the first time on social media Tuesday afternoon since his departure as leader of Ontario's Progressive Conservatives over sexual misconduct allegations, tweeting that "the truth will come out." Brown's statement on Twitter comes as the party scrambles to find his successor, holding a leadership vote just six weeks from now.  Big challenges ahead for Ontario PC leadership hopefuls in race to replace Patrick Brown Sexual advances by Patrick Brown left woman feeling 'anxious,' she tells CBC News "I am immensely grateful for all the support expressed to my family and myself," Brown wrote. "#MeToo can be a tool to lift society and I applaud that effort. False allegations however undermine that good work. The truth will come out. Thank you to all," he wrote.  I am immensely grateful for all the support expressed to my family and myself. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/metoo?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#metoo</a> can be a tool to lift society and I applaud that effort. <br><br>False allegations however undermine that good work. <br><br>The truth will come out. <br><br>Thank you to all.&mdash;@brownbarrie Brown resigned early on Jan. 25 following allegations of sexual misconduct by two women. The accusations, which have not been proven in court, were made public on Jan. 24. Brown called a news conference just before 10 p.m. that night where he denied the allegations, calling them "categorically untrue." Then, only hours later, he stepped down, roiling the Progressive Conservative party ahead of the June provincial election. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Could the Patrick Brown debacle birth another Canadian political dynasty? Ontario PC president steps down amid purge of Patrick Brown loyalists from top posts Big challenges ahead for Ontario PC leadership hopefuls in race to replace Patrick Brown Sexual advances by Patrick Brown left woman feeling 'anxious,' she tells CBC News Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now