Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Patrick Brown's PC leadership bid could lead to 'political fratricide,' experts say Patrick Brown's entry into the Ontario Progressive Conservative leadership race could result in dangerous party in-fighting, experts say. Social Sharing Opponents will have to change strategies to battle former leader, political observers say CBC News · Posted: Feb 17, 2018 10:55 AM ET | Last Updated: February 17, 2018 Patrick Brown speaks to reporters following a meeting at the Conservative Party headquarters in Toronto on Friday. (Christopher Katsarov/Canadian Press) Patrick Brown's entry into the Ontario Progressive Conservative leadership race could lead to ruthless infighting, leaving the party at a disadvantage, experts say.  "This is a time when the party should be taking all its resources and throwing them at Kathleen Wynne," Jim Warren, a political strategist who has worked with the Ontario Liberals, said this week. "Instead, they've got the guns pointed at each other and are about to have a 'shootout at the OK Corral.' You will see this real insider fighting — political fratricide, if you will — of the leaders turning on each other."   Patrick Brown registers to run in PC leadership race PC leadership hopefuls slam Patrick Brown's move to join race for top job Brown entered the race on Friday, just weeks after he resigned in the wake of allegations of sexual misconduct made by two women and first reported by CTV.  The other four leadership candidates, preparing for opponents with roughly similar political advantages, will now have to revise their game plan to focus on Brown. The former leader already has a base of support and extensive political experience. "He's been the leader for the last two years. He has sold a lot of the memberships to the members now. Are they PC members or Patrick Brown members?" Warren said. The candidates battling to lead the Ontario PC party are, from left: Christine Elliott, Tanya Granic Allen, Doug Ford and Caroline Mulroney. (The Canadian Press/Drafttanya.com) Either way, Brown's entry into the leadership race is a gift to the Ontario Liberals, according to Jaime Watt, executive chair of the public relations company Navigator and a long-time Conservative strategist. "I think it harms all the candidates at an important time in Ontario's history," Watt said.  "If I were (Kathleen Wynne) I'd be running to the convenience store to buy a lottery ticket." Former Ontario PC leader Patrick Brown blasts accusers in new Facebook post 'You lied. You defamed me': Patrick Brown blasts CTV News after sexual misconduct accuser changes timeline Brown registered as a candidate just before the 5 p.m deadline on Friday. He had previously launched an online campaign to discredit the allegations that led to his resignation  Speaking to reporters outside PC headquarters, Brown said that he believed his name was cleared.  His entry into the race came hours after interim leader Vic Fedeli announced that Brown was kicked out of caucus, prompting questions about his eligibility to run. Party executives will review his candidacy bid and make a decision in coming days. Many asking if Patrick Brown is eligible to run for leader after being kicked out of caucus. Unless the party also revoked his membership, that shouldn’t stop him, according to these eligibility rules: <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/onpoli?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#onpoli</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/pcpo?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#pcpo</a> <a href="https://t.co/oex2V18fpC">pic.twitter.com/oex2V18fpC</a>&mdash;@CBCQueensPark Nelson Wiseman, a political science professor at the University of Toronto, said the outcome of the executive review is uncertain at best.  "Although he's still a member of the party, the party could suggest he's not in good standing, which is one of the conditions you have to have to run," he told CBC Toronto.  But several PC candidates, at least one MPP and many party members have publicly expressed support for Brown, a sign that a grassroots movement could be mobilizing to bolster his bid.  Ex-leader Patrick Brown expelled from Ontario PC caucus "There is an awful lot of members I see on social media who think there was an injustice done to him — that he wasn't treated fairly by the party establishment and by the caucus members. So the grassroots members may very well turn on the party elites and try and send in Patrick Brown," he said.  The party membership will vote electronically for its next leader between March 2 and March 8, with results to be announced on March 10.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Recap Ontario PC leadership candidates talk sex ed, tax cuts in 1st debate Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now