Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Hamilton PC party won't hold new nomination in Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas The Ontario PC party will hold new nominations in a pair of ridings, but Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas isn't one of them. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 10, 2018 9:15 AM ET | Last Updated: February 10, 2018 Patrick Brown cuts a cake alongside Vikram Singh at a fundraising dinner held by Singh's family on Dec. 28, 2016. Singh went on to launch a court challenge after he alleged party officials stuffed the ballot boxes at an Ancaster nomination meeting. The party's nominating committee said Friday that Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas is not among the ridings that will have new nomination meetings. (Patrick Brown/Twitter) The Ontario PC party will hold new nominations in a pair of ridings, but Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas isn't one of them. In a statement Friday, the party's provincial nomination committee ordered new nominations "only" in Ottawa West-Nepean and Scarborough Centre. That bypasses the west Hamilton riding where police are investigating potential criminal wrongdoing at a May 4 nomination meeting in Ancaster. Ontario's Ministry of Attorney General has also referred the case to the Public Prosecution Service of Canada to avoid any appearance of political interference. Vikram Singh drops his lawsuit against PC party over Hamilton nomination Brown should 'do the right thing' and release secret Vikram Singh recording: NDP At that meeting, would-be candidates Ben Levitt, Vikram Singh, Jeff Peller and Jobson Easow vied for the nomination. Singh and Peller both alleged the party stuffed the ballot boxes so Levitt would win. Both requested the party review the nomination, but then-leader Patrick Brown certified all candidates nominated so far, including Levitt. PC party fights to keep conversation with would-be Hamilton candidate under wraps Police sift through ballot boxes in HWAD PC nomination investigation Singh and Peller also asked Ontario courts for a judicial review. Peller dropped his case last year, and Singh in January after he was ordered to pay about $180,000 in court costs to the party.  Peller drops court challenge against PC party over Hamilton nomination CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Vikram Singh drops his lawsuit against PC party over Hamilton nomination Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now