Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Health Plague cases double in Madagascar in a week With dozens dead from a plague outbreak in Madagascar, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said Friday it is deploying its first-ever plague treatment centre to the island nation. Social Sharing Red Cross sends treatment centre CBC News · Posted: Oct 13, 2017 10:33 AM ET | Last Updated: October 13, 2017 In this Oct. 3 photo, children wear face masks at a school in Antananarivo, Madagascar. Dozens have died from a plague outbreak in the island nation. (Alexander Joe/Associated Press) With dozens dead from a plague outbreak in Madagascar, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said Friday it is deploying its first-ever plague treatment centre to the island nation. The World Health Organization said 561 cases have been reported so far, with another in the Seychelles. "The situation, as you know, is quite concerning. We've seen a doubling of cases over the last week," Dr. Julie Hall, the Red Cross federation's director of health and care, told reporters in Geneva. The plague is spreading rapidly in Madagascar, which already had highest number of cases worldwide Red Cross officials have said the situation is particularly worrying because pneumonic plague, which is spread from person to person, has occurred for the first time in non-endemic areas and crowded cities. About 70 per cent of the cases are the pneumonic form. Cases of bubonic plague, transmitted from animals to people through flea bites, occur almost annually in Madagascar. Doctors and nurses from the Ministry of Health and officers of the Malagasy Red Cross staff a healthcare checkpoint at the 'taxi-brousse' station in Antananarivo last week. (Rijasolo/AFP/Getty ) The rise in cases is due in part to a stronger reporting system, and not all cases have been confirmed, Hall said. But she expressed concern about the geographic expansion of the outbreak and said more than 1,000 volunteers are going door-to-door in Madagascar explaining that plague can be treated if antibiotics are quickly used. "I think all the lessons learned from Ebola mean that our response needs to be extremely fast in these types of situations, in order to bring an outbreak under control as quickly as possible," she said. The Red Cross federation's statement said its plague treatment centre will include 50 beds and a medical team with the capacity to isolate patients and will "significantly bolster" outbreak response. Fears are growing that the outbreak will spread to other countries. Authorities in Seychelles this week said a man was diagnosed with pneumonic plague after returning from Madagascar. The outbreak began after the death of a 31-year-old man in Madagascar's central highlands in late August. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories The plague is spreading rapidly in Madagascar, which already had highest number of cases worldwide Plague confirmed in death of adult in Colorado External Links Plague, U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now