Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Hamilton Police sift through ballot boxes in HWAD PC nomination investigation Hamilton police are studying boxes full of ballots, credentials forms and other election-related material as part of an ongoing investigation into a local PC party nomination. Social Sharing Samantha Craggs · CBC News · Posted: Nov 27, 2017 4:51 PM ET | Last Updated: November 28, 2017 Patrick Brown cuts a cake alongside Vikram Singh at a fundraising dinner held by Singh's family on Dec. 28. (Patrick Brown/Twitter) Hamilton police are poring over boxes full of ballots, credentials forms and other election-related material as part of an ongoing investigation into a local PC party nomination. A document leaked to CBC News shows Hamilton police had a search warrant to obtain two cardboard boxes — one with ballots, one with credentials forms — from the May 7 nomination meeting for Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas (HWAD). Police also examined a large volume of emails and two USB drives containing digital versions of those emails. The party says it voluntarily handed over the materials to investigators at its lawyer's Bay Street office in Toronto on Oct. 27. The move is part of an ongoing police investigation into a provincial nomination meeting in Ancaster in May. AnalysisOntario PCs try to grab political centre, build trust in Patrick Brown Flamborough-Glanbrook nomination wasn't open, fair or transparent, says contender Ben Levitt became the candidate that night for next June's provincial election. But two of his challengers — Vikram Singh and Jeff Peller — alleged the party stuffed ballot boxes so Levitt would win. The party refutes this, and says leader Patrick Brown can choose whatever candidate he wants, regardless of the outcome of a nomination meeting. Peller and Singh both asked the party to review the nomination, but on June 3, Brown certified Levitt as the candidate. Both then asked the court for a judicial review. Peller dropped his case last month, while Singh's will be in court again on Dec. 12. Peller drops court challenge against PC party over Hamilton nomination Brown thought Singh inspired mistrust and didn't fit the HWAD demographic: court doc Police confirmed in August that they were looking into the matter. Const. Lorraine Edwards said officers are examining to see if there is any possible criminal wrongdoing. She also confirmed the ballot seizure. Investigators will be working on this for a while, Edwards said. "It's going to take some time."  The PC party says it's co-operating with the investigation. After concerns earlier this year, it says, Brown brought in Pricewaterhousecoopers to oversee future nominations.  "We have been providing assistance in regard to the investigation," party president Rick Dykstra said this month. "We will continue to remain open and transparent should there be any further requests." The Ontario Liberals, meanwhile, are getting more vocal about the matter. The party called on the PCs Monday to reveal which witnesses have been interviewed and what Conservative officials are being investigated. Singh's court application, which is separate from the criminal investigation, names Brown, party executive director Bob Stanley, Dykstra and staffer Logan Bugeja. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Samantha Craggs Reporter Samantha Craggs is a CBC News reporter based in Hamilton, Ont. She has a particular interest in politics and social justice stories, and tweets live from Hamilton city hall. Follow her on Twitter at @SamCraggsCBC, or email her at samantha.craggs@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now