Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal Quebec schools to be spared cuts during all 4 years of CAQ government, premier promises In a speech Wednesday outlining his legislative goals, Premier François Legault said the Coalition Avenir Québec won't make cuts to educations at any point during its four-year term. Social Sharing Legault says he won't make cuts that affect students, even in an economic downturn Benjamin Shingler · CBC News · Posted: Nov 28, 2018 3:27 PM ET | Last Updated: November 29, 2018 Quebec Premier François Legault outlined his government's priorities in a speech Wednesday. (Jacques Boissinot/Canadian Press) comments Premier François Legault is promising the Coalition Avenir Québec government won't make cuts to education at any point during its four-year term.   In a speech Wednesday outlining his legislative goals, Legault said improving the province's education system will be a priority during his time in office. "Even if Quebec were to face an economic slowdown, education funding will be protected," Legault said at the National Assembly. "The future of our children, the future of Quebec will be protected." The previous Liberal government cut education funding in the first years of its mandate in order to balance the budget. It struggled to shed its belt-tightening image afterward. Legault inherits a better fiscal situation, with budget surpluses forecast this year and next. On Wednesday, he reaffirmed his commitment to introduce pre-kindergarten classrooms across Quebec and provide more services for students with learning disabilities. But he stressed, as well, that pre-K won't be compulsory and that the public daycare system will continue to play an important, "complementary" role. Hundreds more classrooms would be needed to fulfill CAQ's 'almost impossible' pre-K plan The speech didn't include specifics about the pre-K plan. During the election campaign, he pegged its annual price tag at $311 million and said it would free up 50,000 public daycare spots. Critics have questioned the projected cost and whether it is even feasible, given the shortage of teachers and classrooms in some parts of Quebec. Quebec Premier François Legault, left, during his speech Wednesday at the National Assembly in Quebec City. (Jacques Boissinot/Canadian Press) Legault responded to the criticism by saying it demonstrates a lack of ambition, "audacity and pride." The word "audace," or audacity in English, appeared 12 times in his 27-page speech, which attempts to portray the CAQ as leading Quebec down a brave new path. While short on details, Legault's speech also mentioned, in broad strokes, how health care and economic growth will be the two other pillars of the CAQ government.  He promised to follow through on a pledge to cut school taxes and turn the St. Lawrence Valley into a hub of innovation and entrepreneurship. CAQ to move quickly on immigration, religious symbols Immigration and banning civil servants from wearing religious symbols weren't highlighted as top priorities in Wednesday's address. Yet Legault said he would move quickly on both issues, which figured prominently in the election campaign and in the month following the CAQ's majority victory. Nearly two-thirds of Quebecers support public-sector ban on religious symbols, poll finds "We will be very firm on this, and we intend to move quickly," he said of the ban on religious symbols. The CAQ has already moved ahead with its plan to reduce immigration levels by 20 per cent. Immigration Minister Simon Jolin-Barrette has already taken steps to cut immigration levels. (Jacques Boissinot/The Canadian Press) Immigration Minister Simon Jolin-Barrette opened negotiations recently with the federal government that could see the province accept roughly 12,000 fewer immigrants as early as next year. Mixed message on environment While acknowledging the threat of climate change, Legault said he couldn't commit to meeting the 2020 greenhouse gas reduction targets outlined in the Paris agreement. 'We are waiting for real action': Opposition MNAs demand Legault lay out plan to fight climate change The premier said he would make efforts to cut emissions by putting money into public transit — including the previously announced extension of the Montreal Metro's Blue line — and by encouraging the use of electric vehicles. He made no mention of Montreal's proposed Pink line, a more ambitious Metro extension being pushed by Montreal Mayor Valérie Plante. Legault did, however, commit his government to building a so-called third link (a bridge or tunnel) between Quebec City and Lévis, despite calls to focus instead on public transit. The premier also said Quebec has an opportunity to become the "battery" of North America by selling hydroelectricity to the United States and the rest of Canada. He called it a "win-win for Quebec and its neighbours." François Legault wants to sell electricity produced by Quebec's hydro dams to Canada and the rest of the United States. (Jacques Boissinot/Canadian Press) Legault's spoke briefly in English, telling anglophones their "historical community is an enrichment for Quebec in many regions." He added: "We are proud to protect your historical rights and we will keep on doing just that." Opposition parties want to hear the specifics Interim Quebec Liberal Party Leader Pierre Arcand said it's hard to believe there will not be cuts to education with school taxes going down, and given the CAQ campaigned on a promise to abolish school boards. "While the government talks about stability in education, I think there will be a lot of worry there," he said. Interim Parti Québécois Leader Pascal Bérubé called Legault's pledge not to cut education vague. "He's on the defensive," Bérubé said in his reaction to the speech, noting that Legault did not talk about the specifics of his pre-K promise.  In her reaction to the speech, Québec Solidaire co-spokesperson Manon Massé criticized the premier's failure to talk about fighting poverty. "Not once did we hear the word poverty," she said.  The legislature is only scheduled to sit for two weeks before breaking for the holiday season. During that time, the government is expected to table an economic update and make amendments to Quebec's cannabis law, including raising the minimum age of consumption from 18 to 21. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Benjamin Shingler Journalist Benjamin Shingler is based in Montreal. He previously worked at The Canadian Press, Al Jazeera America and the New Brunswick Telegraph-Journal. Follow him on Twitter @benshingler. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Nearly two-thirds of Quebecers support public-sector ban on religious symbols, poll finds Quebec may fall short of its greenhouse gas reduction targets, François Legault suggests Aspiring teacher may leave Quebec if CAQ follows through on religious symbol ban Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now