Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal Quebec elects CAQ majority government, Liberals see historic losses Coalition Avenir Québec, a right-of-centre party that has never held power, will form a majority government in Quebec, dealing a historic blow to the incumbent Liberals. Social Sharing Liberals knocked out of power by François Legault's party; Parti Québécois leader resigns Benjamin Shingler · CBC News · Posted: Oct 01, 2018 7:14 PM ET | Last Updated: October 2, 2018 CAQ Leader François Legault speaks to supporters after his party won a majority in Monday's Quebec election. (Paul Chiasson/Canadian Press) comments Coalition Avenir Québec, a right-of-centre party that has never held power, will form a majority government in Quebec, dealing a historic blow to the incumbent Liberals. In a rowdy victory speech, premier-designate François Legault said voters had finally set aside the divisive battle over sovereignty that has consumed provincial politics for the last 50 years. "Today, we have made history," he said. "There are many Quebecers who have demonstrated that it is possible to have yesterday's adversaries work together, to work for the Quebec of tomorrow, together." The election also saw major losses for the pro-independence Parti Québécois at the hands of another emerging party, Québec Solidaire. The PQ's leader, Jean-François Lisée, resigned after losing his seat. AnalysisFrançois Legault's CAQ swept to power by suburbs, rural regions and francophones AnalysisQuebec may just have had its most important election in 50 years The CAQ, which promises to lower taxes, privatize some aspects of the health-care system and cut the number of immigrants, capitalized on an appetite for change among Quebec voters. The Liberals had held power for the past 15 years, with the exception of a brief PQ minority government. Founded in 2011, the CAQ was the favourite heading into the campaign, though Legault stumbled badly at times, particularly when pressed to explain his controversial plan to cut the number of immigrants accepted by the province. But he regained momentum in the final week of the campaign, much of which he spent in the regions outside Montreal, where he enjoys broad support among key francophone voters. Speaking in English, he said, "I want to assure you that my government will be your government." Watch Legault address English Quebecers: Quebec's premier-designate François Legault speaks to anglophones. CBC News Montreal2 years ago 0:22The CAQ leader switched to English during his election night speech. 0:22 The CAQ won 74 ridings while the Liberals were elected in 32. Sixty-three is required for a majority.  But they won only two seats on the island of Montreal.   Legault, who has proposed building new suburban roads, has not always seen eye to eye with the city's mayor,?Valérie Plante, who took power last year on a promise to improve public transit.  The CAQ had 37.7 per cent of the popular vote, the lowest amount in Quebec history for a party that won a majority. The Liberals got only 24.7 per cent, a historic low for the party. Since Confederation, the Liberals have always obtained at least 30 per cent of the vote.  ProfileWho is François Legault, Quebec's next premier? Here are the priorities of Quebec's new CAQ government Couillard mulls his future Philippe Couillard's Liberals campaigned on their strong economic record and a promise to improve the everyday lives of Quebecers. But they were criticized for the deep cuts to education and health care made in the first two years of their mandate as they wrestled to balance the budget. In his concession speech, Couillard, who retained his own seat in Lac-Saint-Jean, said he would take a few days to reflect on his political future. "Quebecers clearly expressed a desire for change," he said. "I wish for [Legault's] government all the success that Quebec deserves. "Despite our significant differences in opinion, we are all Quebecers. We must remain united."? Couillard added that he was proud of his government's record, and that "we did what we said we would do." Speaking in English, he said, "English is not a foreign language. You have always been among us, part of us, part of our history." Watch: Couillard urges Quebec to remain united. Outgoing premier Philippe Couillard stresses unity for Quebecers under CAQ government. (not applicable)2 years ago 0:51Quebec's outgoing premier delivers his election night speech. 0:51 Gains for Québec Solidaire? The PQ won just nine seats and only 17 per cent of the popular vote. Those numbers aren't enough to maintain official party status in Quebec. The question of whether Quebec should become independent didn't figure prominently in the campaign for the first time in decades. Supporters of Québec Solidaire react as they watch election results at the headquarters of Manon Massé in Montreal. (Peter McCabe/Canadian Press) With support for sovereignty waning, the PQ said during the campaign it would put off holding a referendum until a second mandate. But the party lost votes to another sovereignist party, the smaller, left-wing Québec Solidaire?, led by two popular "co-spokespeople," Manon Massé and Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois. Lisée lost his own Montreal riding of Rosemont to Québec Solidaire?'s Vincent Marissal. Québec Solidaire won 10 ridings, more than tripling its seat count. Québec Solidaire's platform, which includes a series of bold environmental proposals, is particularly popular among young voters. In her speech, Massé urged the CAQ to take action to fight climate change. Parti Québécois Leader Jean-François Lisée with his daughter, left, and partner Sandrine Perrot watches results come in on television in Montreal. (Graham Hughes/Canadian Press) "We told you all campaign about the environment. It's now or never," she said. When the election was called, the Liberals held 68 seats, the PQ held 28, the CAQ 21 and Québec Solidaire? three, along with five independents in the province's 125-seat National Assembly. Liberals hang on to 19 seats on Montreal island, but CAQ makes inroads CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Quebec may just have had its most important election in 50 years Analysis François Legault's CAQ swept to power by suburbs, rural regions and francophones Québec Solidaire triples number of seats, gets off island of Montreal RESULTS Get full results from your riding and across Quebec Recap François Legault's majority win, as it happened Profile Who is François Legault, Quebec's next premier? Here are the priorities of Quebec's new CAQ government Liberals hang on to 19 seats on Montreal island, but CAQ makes inroads Eastern Townships turns the page on decades of Liberal rule After a dismal election result, what does the future hold for the Parti Québécois? Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now