Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal Quebec's first case of coronavirus confirmed by National Microbiology Lab The COVID-19 case was considered "presumptive" on Thursday evening when Health Minister Danielle McCann first announced the news. Quebec public health authorities announced the test came back positive on Friday. Social Sharing Woman who recently travelled from Iran now in isolation Isaac Olson · CBC News · Posted: Feb 27, 2020 7:41 PM ET | Last Updated: February 29, 2020 Quebec Health Minister Danielle McCann said the province's first presumptive case of the coronavirus has been detected in a woman in the Montreal region. (Radio-Canada) comments Editor's note: This story has been updated with news that the COVID-19 case is now confirmed. Quebec's first case of coronavirus has been confirmed in a woman who recently returned from a trip to Iran. Quebec public health authorities announced Friday evening that the National Microbiology Lab in Winnipeg has confirmed the case has tested positive. The COVID-19 case was considered "presumptive" on Thursday evening when Health Minister Danielle McCann first announced the news. A diagnosis is considered presumptive until results come back from the Winnipeg lab. The woman took a plane from Iran to Qatar before arriving at the Montreal airport on Monday, She immediately went to an outpatient clinic in the Montreal region with minor symptoms and was quickly given a mask upon entering, McCann said Thursday. The patient was then put in isolation at a nearby hospital where the proper infection-control measures were "very well implemented," McCann said. Health workers had no significant risk of exposure, said McCann, who declined to specify exactly where the medical facilities are located. She said medical professionals are confident the patient had "limited contact" with others and that the infection-control methods were effective. However, health officials are still investigating who the patient may have come into contact with at the clinic and is monitoring everybody involved for signs of the virus. "The detection of this case shows that our system is efficient, it is reliable and that the management protocol is well established," the minister said. "All the measures that are necessary to protect the population, to protect the workers and take care of the patients, if it occurs, are there." McCann said the woman did not take public transit to get to the clinic, and hadn't gone back to work since returning from Iran. She is now in isolation at home for "a period of time and she is doing fine," the minister said. COVID-19 outbreak: Here's what's happening around the world Thursday There are currently 21 other possible cases under investigation in the province. "There is no need to worry," said McCann. "The risk remains low." The ministry said a probable case of COVID-19 is determined by several factors, including a body temperature of more than 38 C and meeting COVID-19 exposure criteria. The World Health Organization has declared the outbreak a global health emergency. More than 81,000 cases of the coronavirus have been detected since it emerged in the Hubei province of China last year. In Canada, there are currently 13 confirmed cases, with the latest reported Thursday morning.   with files from Radio-Canada CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Quebec man quarantined aboard cruise ship tests positive for COVID-19 Husband of Ontario's 5th COVID-19 case also tests positive for coronavirus Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now