Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Montreal Quebec lawmakers told secularism bill will institutionalize discrimination, stoke Islamophobia It wasn't until late on the second day of hearings into Quebec's secularism bill that lawmakers heard from someone who wears one of the religious symbols targeted by the legislation. Social Sharing Plan to ban religious symbols will lead to minorities being harmed, activist says Jonathan Montpetit · CBC News · Posted: May 08, 2019 3:14 PM ET | Last Updated: May 9, 2019 'The message being received by Muslims ... is that they're not welcome in Quebec,' said Samira Laouni at the Bill 21 hearings in Quebec City. (Jonathan Montpetit/CBC) comments It wasn't until late on the second day of hearings into Quebec's secularism bill that lawmakers heard from someone who wears one of the religious symbols targeted by the legislation. But by the time Samira Laouni wrapped up her testimony, the committee was confronted with a detailed description of Islamophobia in Quebec and arguments why the proposed law would only make it worse.  Wearing a purple hijab, or Muslim head covering, in the National Assembly's "red room," Laouni said that by seeking to bar some civil servants — including public school teachers, police officers and judges — from wearing religious symbols, such as hijabs, skullcaps or turbans, the government was sending a message.   "The message being received by Muslims ... is that they're not welcome in Quebec," Laouni said, speaking for Communication pour l'ouverture et le rapprochement interculturel, a non-profit group that promotes inter-cultural dialogue. "That's clearly not the message the government wants to send." She expressed concerns that by singling out some religious groups more than others — such as Muslim women — the bill was contributing to intolerance. The bill, she said, will "legitimize discimination." 'This bill is actually institutionalizing discrimination,' said Haroun Bouazzi, a well-known anti-racism activist in Montreal, after presenting his brief on the second day of legislative hearings into Bill 21. (Jonathan Montpetit/CBC) Immigration Minister Simon Jolin-Barrette appeared to be skeptical when Laouni described "radical secularists" who were whipping up hatred against Muslims. "Maybe our elected officials should read our Facebook pages to see what we're subjected to everyday," she said later in the hearing. "There has been a normalization of hatred in Quebec." Bill amounts to 'institutionalizing discrimination:' anti-racism activist Laouni's group was accompanied by several members of the Quebec Islamic Cultural Centre, the Quebec City mosque where six people were killed in 2017 by a gunman radicalized by the white nationalist movement.  She said representatives of the cultural centre had also asked to speak at the commission but were denied a spot. Several other religious groups have criticized the government for leaving them out of the hearings. Are you there, God? It's me, François Legault The only Muslim group that did receive an invitation, the Association des Musulmans et des Arabes pour la laïcité au Québec, addressed the hearings earlier Wednesday.  Speaking for the group, Haroun Bouazzi said it was members of racialized communities who would be harmed most by the religious symbols ban in the public service.  "This bill is actually institutionalizing discrimination," said Bouazzi, a well-known anti-racism activist in Montreal, following his appearance at the hearing.  Gérard Bouchard's testimony was highly anticipated. He co-authored a landmark study in 2008 on religious symbols in Quebec. (Jonathan Montpetit/CBC) The head of Quebec's human rights commission, Philippe-André Tessier, who testified late yesterday evening, made similar remarks. The bill will force people to either change their religious practices or risk losing their job, said Tessier. "That, in other words, is discrimination," he said. "There aren't 1,000 different ways to say that."  Hamburger man and the lack of evidence The Coalition Avenir Québec government acknowledges that its bill would limit an individual right, namely the right to religious freedom. But the government argues that doing so is necessary in order to finally resolve Quebec's long debate over how to accommodate minorities, and preserve the province's distinct collective identity. CBC ExplainsWhat's in Quebec's secularism bill: Religious symbols, uncovered faces and a charter workaround The bill, moreover, invokes the notwithstanding clause, which the government hopes will spare it from being challenged in court on grounds it violates the Quebec and Canadian charters of rights. In many of his questions to the committee's witnesses, Jolin-Barrette has sought their opinion on whether the government is justified in limiting a right and invoking the notwithstanding clause. The famed sociologist Gerard Bouchard, who co-authored a landmark study in 2008 on religious accommodations, agreed that sometimes it's OK to violate a fundamental right if it's for a greater good. Quebec Minister of Immigration, Diversity and Inclusiveness Simon Jolin-Barrette took issue with Bouazzi's comments on how laws restricting women's freedom were passed following a referendum in Iran. 'I don't think these comments have their place here,' said Jolin-Barrette. (Jacques Boissinot/Canadian Press) "Where is the greater good that would render this limitation legitimate? I don't see it," Bouchard said during his highly anticipated testimony Wednesday afternoon.  There is no evidence, he said, that religious symbols traumatize students or lead to radicalization.  "If just one of those elements were proven, I would support your bill, because then there would be higher principle," he said. Bouchard is adamantly opposed to the bill in its current form, saying it makes the province look intolerant in the eyes of the world. The bill's critics on the committee — the Liberals and Québec Solidaire — have repeatedly asked its backers to provide evidence of the threat to Quebec society that the legislation would address.  On Wednesday, the committee heard from two educators who argued that when teachers wear religious symbols, it harms gender equality. At Quebec secularism bill hearings, government challenged to say why trampling religious rights is necessary  They were asked by Québec Solidaire MNA Sol Zanetti whether they had any data to show a link between Islamic radicalization and the hijab.  "Do you need studies to show that the McDonald's hamburger man encourages people to eat more hamburgers?" replied Nadia El-Mabrouk, a Université de Montreal computer science professor and well-known advocate for secularism. The hearings continue Thursday before adjourning for the weekend. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Jonathan Montpetit Journalist Jonathan Montpetit is a journalist with CBC Montreal. Follow him on Twitter @jonmontpetit CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Are you there, God? It's me, François Legault Hearings on Quebec's secularism bill have little time for religious groups, critics say At Quebec secularism bill hearings, government challenged to say why trampling religious rights is necessary Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now