Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Racism 'still very much alive' in Canada as stereotypes around coronavirus spread, some warn At Amy Go's Lunar New Year family dinner in Toronto on Friday, celebrations were mixed with a palpable sense that "racism is still very much alive" in Canada. Social Sharing 'Do you have the Chinese disease?' Amy Go's friend observed a pair of East Asian men being asked on a bus Shanifa Nasser · CBC News · Posted: Feb 01, 2020 5:50 PM ET | Last Updated: February 1, 2020 Amy Go has heard from many friends and family members about the xenophobia they've experienced as misinformation and stereotypes run rampant. Go is the interim national president of the Chinese Canadian National Council for Social Justice in Toronto. (James Morrison/CBC) comments At Amy Go's Lunar New Year family dinner in Toronto on Friday, celebrations were mixed with a palpable sense that "racism is still very much alive" in Canada. As fears spread about the threat of the newly discovered strain of coronavirus that's hit hardest in China, Go has heard from many friends and family members about the xenophobia they've experienced as misinformation and stereotypes run rampant. "My sister-in-law said in her workplace there were people coughing and the Chinese staff were told by the manager not to come back to work the next day, but not the other staff," Go told CBC News. PM warns against discrimination at Lunar New Year event as fears of coronavirus spread That's just one example.  A friend told Go that when she got on a bus the other day, people around her immediately moved away. Go says her friend watched as a white woman asked two East Asian men wearing protective masks, "Do you have the Chinese disease?" Then there are examples of school kids being taunted or bullied for being Chinese.  Today my son was cornered at school by kids who wanted to “test” him for <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Coronavirus?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Coronavirus</a> just because he is half-Chinese. They chased him. Scared him. And made him cry.<br><br>I was the same age when I was bullied for being Pakistani.<br><br>It’s 2020. I thought things had changed by now... ?&mdash;@DocSchmadia It's a worrying reminder to Go, who is the interim national president of the Chinese Canadian National Council for Social Justice, of the isolation and stigma that came with the 2003 SARS outbreak that killed 44 Canadians among nearly 800 victims worldwide. Amid the fears, Asian-run businesses were hit hard as people kept their distance — so much so that then-prime minister Jean Chretien visited a Chinatown restaurant at the height of the crisis to show there was no need for panic.  Compared with 2003, Go says this time around social media seems to have made it easier for hateful ideas to spread. A 'punch in the gut' "I do find this time it's even more, it's worse because this sort of uncensored and brazen, brazen hate speech and racism could rear its head without any sanctions as compared to the time we were living through SARS," she said. For Chinese Canadians, it's a "punch in the gut," said Go. "Unfortunately the 'yellow peril' term used against the Chinese, it's still here." According to the most recent census, more than 1.5 million people in Canada identify as Chinese. AudioCoronavirus misinformation can spread like a disease, says Waterloo prof Canada's chief public health officer condemns racist acts linked to coronavirus outbreak It's that kind of sentiment that dozens turned out to fight during a walk through Toronto's Chinatown on Saturday.  "I thought I would just have Torontonians join me as a show of tangible support for the Chinese Canadian community," said Chinatown resident and author Jay Pitter, who organized the event. Prime Minster Justin Trudeau gathers at the head of the table for tea during a Lunar New Year celebration at Casa Deluz in Scarborough, Ont., Saturday, Feb. 1, 2020. Trudeau said Canadians should support each other and avoid discrimination based on fear and misinformation. (Tijana Martin/The Canadian Press) Pitter said she was disheartened by stories of Chinese Canadians being singled out on the bus, at work and at school, and decided to act, holding the walk on the start of Black History Month — a date she says isn't without significance.  "I certainly come from a culture of people who face lots of discrimination within the public realm and so I'm deeply concerned about any other community facing the same and similar challenges." 'No place in our country for discrimination' Prime Minister Justin Trudeau delivered a similar message to Canadians at a Lunar New Year celebration in Scarborough, Ont., on Saturday. "There is no place in our country for discrimination driven by fear or misinformation," Trudeau said. "This is not something Canadians will ever stand for." Jay Pitter said she was disheartened by stories of Chinese Canadians being singled out on the bus, at work and at school, and decided to act. (James Morrison/CBC) In his remarks, Trudeau sought to show his support for those who have been victims of discrimination and those worried about loved ones abroad. "I know it's been a tough start of the year for many of you," Trudeau said. "Our government will always stand with you. We will always speak up against division." WATCH: How to confront racism sparked by coronavirus fears How to confront racism sparked by coronavirus fears CBC News1 year ago 3:38Despite the low risk of transmission in this country, Asian Canadians have become the targets of xenophobic comments in recent days, both online and offline. 3:38 For Go, that kind of public display of support is important. But she said she would also like to see more tangible measures such as a hotline for people experiencing racism, greater monitoring of social media for misinformation and resources for people whose rights may be violated to get the information and support they need. Saturday's walk in Toronto was one step in the show of solidarity.  As fears of coronavirus outbreak grow, Chinese-Canadian mother and activist worries about racist backlash "Public places like streets and transit reveal the very worst of who we are as a city, but they also reveal the very best of who we are," Pitter said.  "This is a city that will not tolerate this alienation and backlash." With files from Lorenda Reddekopp CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now