Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Reporting with a blindfold: What it's like to be a journalist covering North Korea The odd death of Kim Jong-nam, the estranged half-brother of North Korea's leader Kim Jong-un, has focused a spotlight on the secretive country. But that light isn't revealing much for journalists trying to investigate what happened. Social Sharing Communist country described as 'possibly the most difficult place on earth to get information out of' Diana Swain · CBC News · Posted: Mar 04, 2017 9:00 AM ET | Last Updated: March 5, 2017 CBC foreign correspondent Nahlah Ayed took this photo while in North Korea. While CBC journalists have been to the country in the past, those visits are tightly controlled and usually at the invitation of the ruling party when there's something it wants Western media to see. (Nahlah Ayed/CBC) The odd death of Kim Jong-nam, the estranged half-brother of North Korea's leader Kim Jong-un, has focused a spotlight on the secretive country. But that light isn't revealing much for journalists trying to investigate what happened.   "North Korea is possibly the most difficult place on earth to get information out of. The curtain is very tightly drawn at all times," says Saša Petricic.  Watch the full The Investigators episode at the end of the article. CBC's Asia correspondent has been reporting on Kim Jong-nam's death, and the subsequent murder investigation by Malaysian police, by pulling together information from other countries to try to figure out what happened, an unfamiliar experience for journalists accustomed to going to the heart of a story to report on it. "You have to piece together these bits and pieces of information, and try to come up with a broader narrative," he says. War of words over Kim Jongnam assasination: <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NorthKorea?src=hash">#NorthKorea</a> amb says <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Malaysia?src=hash">#Malaysia</a> cant be trusted. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/SouthKorea?src=hash">#SouthKorea</a> says NKorea cant be not to kill <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/CBC?src=hash">#CBC</a>&mdash;@sasapetricic Petricic has been to South Korea, but that's as close as he got to the so-called "hermit kingdom," adding "the average North Korean probably knows very little, if anything, about this case," in spite of the fact it's been making headlines around the world. While CBC journalists have been to North Korea in the past, those visits are tightly controlled and usually at the invitation of the ruling party when there's something it wants Western media to see — unlike now. "They've been holding news conferences," Petricic says of North Korean authorities who've responded to the worldwide attention on the story. "But not inside the country, not in North Korea." The Investigators with Diana Swain - Covering North Korea and the killing of Kim Jong-nam The Investigators4 years ago 22:20The killing of the North Korean leader's half brother has highlighted the difficulty that journalists face when covering the world's most secretive country. Diana speaks with an investigative journalist who took a huge risk by posing as a teacher to get into North Korea. Plus - we'll look at the growing crackdown on journalists in Turkey, one of Canada's NATO allies. Watch The Investigators Saturdays at 9:30 pm ET (replays Sundays at 5:30 pm ET) on CBC News Network 22:20 Kim died en route to hospital last month after being attacked by two women as he stood in line at Malaysia's Kuala Lumpur International Airport. The incident was caught on overhead security cameras and appears to show the two women smearing Kim's mouth with a rag that Malaysian authorities believe was coated with deadly VX nerve agent, a banned chemical weapon. The two women were this week charged with his murder, widely speculated to have been ordered by his estranged half-brother. While Western news agencies such as the Associated Press or Agence France-Presse have bureaus in Pyongyang, their work is monitored and restricted by North Korea's communist government. Undercover in North Korea That's why journalist Suki Kim says she took the extraordinary risk of sneaking in. In 2011, she got a job at a university, teaching the children of North Korea's elite families. But during her six months in the country, she was secretly taking notes for a book that she wrote when she left. "I came out of there with about 400 pages of notes. And because my cover was a teacher, I could have a laptop with me, which I carried with me at all times. I wrote morning and night, and kept all the documents on USB sticks, and erased everything from computer every single time. I kept an SD card, where I had a backup copy — which I also hid." Inside North Korea's efforts to keep everyone out PHOTOS | In Pyongyang, rare glimpses of everyday life CBC IN NORTH KOREA | Kim Jong-un woos watchers at home and abroad Kim has little doubt what would have happened had she been found out. "To actually write a book in there has never been done — because it's that scary. It's a country where they send people to gulags [prison camps] for, you know, carrying a Bible and passing it out," she says. "So I don't think that what I had done would have let me live, really. That's my guess. And that fear was there all the time. Every second. "There was just no other way to tell the truth from inside North Korea." ABOUT THE AUTHOR Diana Swain Multi-award-winning journalist Diana Swain is the senior investigative correspondent for CBC News and host of The Investigators on CBC News Network. Twitter: @swaindiana CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Inside the brazen attack on North Korean leader's half-brother Malaysia charges 2 women with murder of Kim Jong-nam Video appears to show fatal attack on North Korean exile The world according to Kim: Inside North Korea's efforts to keep everyone out CBC IN NORTH KOREA North Korea prepares for 1st ruling party congress in 36 years CBC in North Korea Nukes, money and power cuts: North Korea's leader woos watchers at home and abroad Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now