Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Republican senator blasts Trump's press attacks, recalls rhetoric of Stalin U.S. President Donald Trump's use of the terms "fake news" and "enemy of the people" is "shameful" and reminiscent of words infamously used by Russian dictator Josef Stalin to describe his enemies, Republican Sen. Jeff Flake says in a speech on Capitol Hill. Social Sharing Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake says when Trump cites fake news, he 'should be the figure of suspicion, not the press' The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 17, 2018 1:02 PM ET | Last Updated: January 17, 2018 Sen. Jeff Flake, a Republican from Arizona, speaks on the Senate floor on Wednesday at the Capitol in Washington. Flake called Trump's repeated attacks on the media 'shameful' and 'repulsive.' (Senate TV via Associated Press) U.S. President Donald Trump's use of the terms "fake news" and "enemy of the people" is "shameful" and reminiscent of words infamously used by Russian dictator Josef Stalin to describe his enemies, Republican Sen. Jeff Flake said Wednesday. In a speech on the Senate floor, Flake, of Arizona, called Trump's repeated attacks on the media "repulsive" and said Trump "has it precisely backward." Despotism is the enemy of the people, while a free press is the despot's enemy and a guardian of democracy, Flake said. A frequent Trump critic who is retiring this year, Flake said that when Trump calls news stories he doesn't like "fake news," he "should be the figure of suspicion, not the press." Republican senator slams Trump, compares him to Russian dictator Josef Stalin News3 years ago 2:03'Our own president uses words ... spoken by Josef Stalin to describe his enemies,' Arizona's Jeff Flake tells Senate 2:03 Arizona's other Republican senator, John McCain, also decried Trump's use of the term "fake news" and said Trump was encouraging autocrats around the world "to silence reporters, undermine political opponents, stave off media scrutiny and mislead citizens." The White House had no immediate comment. Analysis'Disturbing rhetoric': Trump's press threats may violate 1st Amendment, oath of office Departing Republican senators Corker, Flake take aim at Trump's behaviour Flake has said he is not comparing Trump to Stalin, who was responsible for the deaths of millions, but said Trump's use of a term favoured by Stalin, "enemy of the people," is chilling. "This alone should be a source of great shame for us in this body, especially for those of us in the president's party,"' Flake said. Truth 'battered and abused' In an opinion column in the Washington Post, McCain said Trump's attempts to undermine the free press "make it more difficult to hold repressive governments accountable." Constant cries of "fake news" undercut legitimate reporting and "strip activists of one of their most powerful tools of dissent," McCain wrote. Sen. John McCain is also criticizing Trump's use of the term 'fake news.' (Aaron P. Bernstein/Reuters) Trump's first year in office "was a year which saw the truth — objective, empirical, evidence-based truth — more battered and abused than any other in the history of our country, at the hands of the most powerful figure in our government," Flake said, referring to the president. In a direct attack on Trump, Flake said the impulses underlying Trump's attacks "are not benign. They have the effect of eroding trust in our vital institutions and conditioning the public to no longer trust them. The destructive effect of this kind of behaviour on our democracy cannot be overstated." White House has become 'adult daycare,' Republican says after Trump criticism Trump's use of the term "fake news" has encouraged authoritarian leaders around the world, who now routinely dismiss criticism as "fake news," Flake and McCain said, citing comments by Syrian President Bashar Assad, Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte and Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, among others. As a Republican, Flake said he is ashamed of Trump and said politicians in both parties must stand up to his attacks. "No longer can we compound attacks on truth with our silent acquiescence. No longer can we turn a blind eye or a deaf ear to these assaults on our institutions," Flake said. He said that a president who cannot take criticism, "who must constantly deflect and distort and distract — who must find someone else to blame — is charting a very dangerous path. And a Congress that fails to act as a check on the president adds to the danger." WATCH: U.S. Sen. Jeff Flake's full speech to the Senate News3 years ago 14:27WATCH: U.S. Sen. Jeff Flake's full speech to the Senate 14:27 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis 'Disturbing rhetoric': Trump's press threats may violate 1st Amendment, oath of office Departing Republican senators Corker, Flake take aim at Trump's behaviour White House has become 'adult daycare,' Republican says after Trump criticism Notorious former Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio running for U.S. Senate Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now