Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Rohingya insurgents say 10 found in Myanmar grave were 'innocent civilians' Rohingya Muslim insurgents say 10 Rohingya found in a mass grave in Myanmar's troubled Rakhine state last month were "innocent civilians," and not members of their group. Social Sharing Myanmar's military said earlier this week its soldiers had killed 10 captured Muslim 'terrorists' CBC News · Posted: Jan 13, 2018 6:57 AM ET | Last Updated: January 13, 2018 Rohingya Muslim insurgents said Saturday that 10 Rohingya found in a mass grave in Myanmar's troubled Rakhine state last month were "innocent civilians," and not members of their group. Myanmar's military said earlier this week its soldiers had killed 10 captured Muslim "terrorists" during insurgent attacks at the beginning of September, after Buddhist villagers had forced the captured men into a grave the villagers had dug. It was a rare acknowledgment of wrongdoing by the military in Myanmar, also known as Burma, during its operations in the western state of Rakhine.  The Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA), whose raids against security posts starting last August sparked sweeping military operations in the Muslim-majority northern part of Rakhine, said it "wholeheartedly welcomes the admission" of "war crimes" by the "Burmese terrorist army." "We hereby declare that these 10 innocent Rohingya civilians found in the said mass grave in Inn Din Village Tract were neither ARSA nor had any association with ARSA", the group said in a statement on Twitter. A Myanmar government spokesperson said in response to ARSA's statement that sometimes "terrorists and villagers were allied" in attacks" against security forces. Myanmar military says soldiers captured 10 captured Rohingya Over 6,700 Rohingya killed in a single month, Doctors Without Borders estimates Bob Rae describes 'appalling' conditions and widespread trauma at Rohingya "We have already said it is very difficult to segregate who is a terrorist and who are innocent villagers," spokesman Zaw Htay said. "There will be an ongoing investigating process whether they are members of ARSA or not." The Myanmar military did not immediately respond to requests for comment. 'A new step for our country' Myanmar's civilian leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, said Friday it was "positive" that the country's military was taking responsibility for the actions of troops. "It is a new step for our country," she told a joint news conference with Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Kono in Myanmar's capital of Naypyitaw.   "I see it that way because a country needs to take responsibility for the rule of law in the country, and this is the first step on the road of taking responsibility and it is a positive thing," she said, according to a transcript of the news conference posted on her Facebook page. On Dec. 18, the military announced a mass grave containing 10 bodies had been found at the coastal village of Inn Din,  about 50 kilometres north of the state capital Sittwe. The army appointed a senior officer to investigate. A statement from the military on Wednesday said its investigation had found that members of the security forces had taken part in the killing, and action would be taken against them. The Rohingya crisis erupted after Rohingya insurgent attacks on security posts on Aug. 25 in Rakhine triggered a fierce military response that the United Nations denounced as ethnic cleansing. Myanmar denies ethnic cleansing, saying its security forces had mounted legitimate counter-insurgency clearance operations.         CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Myanmar military says soldiers killed 10 captured Rohingya Over 6,700 Rohingya killed in a single month, Doctors Without Borders estimates CBC Investigates Did the UN ignore warnings of ethnic cleansing of Rohingya in Myanmar? Destruction of Rohingya villages continues: Human Rights Watch Bob Rae, Canada's envoy to the Rohingya crisis, issues interim report As It Happens Bob Rae describes 'appalling' conditions and widespread trauma at Rohingya refugee camps Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now