Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Hamilton Rookie councillor Donna Skelly nominated as Flamborough-Glanbrook PC candidate Donna Skelly will run for the Ontario PC party in Flamborough-Glanbrook next year — making it a rare race where two city councillors will face off against each other. Another candidate who wanted the nomination says the experience was "a whole lot of House of Cards." Social Sharing 1 candidate who wanted the nomination says the experience was 'a whole lot of House of Cards' Samantha Craggs · CBC News · Posted: Oct 05, 2017 8:25 PM ET | Last Updated: October 6, 2017 Donna Skelly will run against a fellow councillor in the Flamborough-Glanbrook riding. This will be Skelly's third election run for the Ontario PC party. (Samantha Craggs/CBC) Donna Skelly will run for the Ontario PC party in Flamborough-Glanbrook next year — making it a rare race where two city councillors will face off against each other. They'll also be able to run for council again if neither win. Skelly, who won a Ward 7 byelection just last year, will run for the Tories in June. Judi Partridge, Ward 15 councillor in Flamborough, will run for the Liberals in the newly redrawn riding. Skelly said last month that the Flamborough-Glanbrook nomination wasn't an acclamation, and that she'd have to compete for the spot. But at Thursday's meeting, she was the only contender. Skelly, rookie councillor, wants to run for PCs in Flamborough-Glanbrook Nick Lauwers, a mental health therapist, posted to social media in September saying he'd been told to step back, even though he'd been fundraising and signing up members for months. Dan Sadler said the same. Ontario PC leader Patrick Brown issued a statement Thursday welcoming Skelly to the team. "I congratulate Donna Skelly on her nomination as the Ontario PC candidate for Flamborough-Glanbrook. "Donna brings a wealth of experience to our Ontario PC team," he said. "She currently sits as a local city councillor where she is becoming known for holding council to account on waste. Her dedication to her community has been recognized as the Hamilton Woman of the Year by the YWCA." This is Skelly's third attempt at a provincial run. The former CHCH-TV reporter took her first run at municipal politics last February and won by 92 votes over a heat of 22 people.  Partridge chooses Liberals over PCs after both courted her for Flamborough-Glanbrook Donna Skelly spent the most in Ward 7 race - and had Conservative backing Her closest contender, John-Paul Danko, said he's "strongly considering" running in Ward 7 again. With the timing of next year's elections, both Skelly and Partridge can run provincially and then for their council seats if they lose. The provincial election is scheduled for June 7, while the municipal election will be Oct. 22. Skelly said she doesn't see her running against Partridge as being an issue at the council table. "It would make great headlines, but the truth is she's the ultimate professional, and there's absolutely no issue," she said. "It's very respectful. It's a nice healthy competition." Skelly's election expenses from last year show that her council run had strong financial backing from local PC party members. The NDP haven't nominated a candidate in Flamborough-Glanbrook yet. Another Hamilton PC race has drawn headlines. Two would-be candidates, Vikram Singh and Jeff Peller, are challenging the party in court, asking for a judicial review of what they say was ballot box stuffing at an Ancaster nomination meeting.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Skelly, rookie councillor, wants to run for PCs in Flamborough-Glanbrook Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now