Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Russian aid plan for Syria's eastern Ghouta area is not enough, UN says A Russian plan for a five-hour pause in fighting in Syria's eastern Ghouta needs to be expanded to allow aid deliveries to enter and civilians and urgent medical cases to leave, United Nations officials say. Social Sharing Besieged area 'is devoid of respect for international law,' UN humanitarian adviser says Thomson Reuters · Posted: Mar 01, 2018 12:39 PM ET | Last Updated: March 1, 2018 A handicapped man rides a bicycle past damaged buildings in the besieged town of Douma in eastern Ghouta, Syria, on Thursday. (Bassam Khabieh/Reuters) A Russian plan for a five-hour pause in fighting in Syria's eastern Ghouta needs to be expanded to allow aid deliveries to enter and civilians and urgent medical cases to leave, United Nations officials said on Thursday. Hundreds of people have died in 11 days of bombing of eastern Ghouta, a swathe of towns and farms outside Damascus that is the last major rebel-controlled area near the capital. The onslaught has been one of the fiercest of Syria's civil war, now entering its eighth year. Chemical weapons watchdog investigates attacks in Syria's eastern Ghouta North Korea violated sanctions, sent banned weapons, items to Syria, Myanmar: UN experts "You are failing to help us help civilians in Syria," UN humanitarian adviser Jan Egeland told diplomats from 23 states attending a weekly meeting in Geneva. "Eastern Ghouta is devoid of respect for international law." Some 400,000 people trapped in government-besieged eastern Ghouta need life-saving aid, and the only convoy allowed so far this year was a small one in mid-February with aid for just 7,200 people, Egeland said. Russia, a strong ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, has called for daily five-hour local ceasefires to establish what it calls a humanitarian corridor so aid can enter the enclave and civilians and wounded can leave. Members of the Syrian Civil Defence group and civilians carry victims after airstrikes hit Ghouta, a suburb of Damascus, on Thursday. (Syrian Civil Defence via Associated Press) But the first such truce on Tuesday quickly collapsed when bombing and shelling resumed after a short lull. "We were not involved in the talks that led to the declaration of a five-hour pause. And if we had been, we would say that it is not enough," Egeland said. Trucks on standby Egeland said a "two-way" humanitarian corridor was needed, with several convoys each week into eastern Ghouta, while 1,000 priority medical cases must be removed for treatment. "Since the resolution was adopted, it [the humanitarian situation] did not get better, it got worse," said Egeland. Smoke rises above the battered skyline in eastern Ghouta on Feb. 27. (Bassam Khabieh/Reuters) "I have to say I know no humanitarian actor... who thinks the five hours is enough for us to be able to deliver relief into eastern Ghouta and to organize orderly medical evacuations out," he said of the Russian unilateral declaration. During Thursday's meeting of the humanitarian task force in Geneva, the UN received notice that it may get permission from Damascus to go to Douma in eastern Ghouta. "We have 43 trucks standing by to go there and full warehouses to load into the trucks as soon as we get the permit," Egeland said. No civilians leave Syria's rebel-held eastern Ghouta on Day 2 of pause in fighting AnalysisWith Iran operating in Syria, Israel girds itself for 'First Northern War' UN Syria envoy Staffan de Mistura told reporters the world body would not give up seeking a full 30-day ceasefire, as mandated by the UN Security Council last Saturday. "We are determined because otherwise this becomes the copycat of Aleppo," de Mistura said, referring to a battle for besieged rebel-held eastern Aleppo in late 2016. Ghanem Tayara, chairman of the Union of Medical Care and Relief Organizations working in Syria, said some 1,123 patients need to get out of eastern Ghouta, where two hospitals have been bombed since Saturday's resolution. "That means these people will die during the next few days if we don't take them out. They need intensive care units. We don't have them," Tayara said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Chemical weapons watchdog investigates attacks in Syria's eastern Ghouta North Korea violated sanctions, sent banned weapons, items to Syria, Myanmar: UN experts No civilians leave Syria's rebel-held eastern Ghouta on Day 2 of pause in fighting Analysis With Iran operating in Syria, Israel girds itself for 'First Northern War' Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now