Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Health Scientists map genetic codes of 3,000 dangerous bacteria The DNA of deadly strains of plague, dysentery and cholera were decoded in what the researchers said was an effort to better understand some of the world's most dangerous diseases. Social Sharing First bacteria to be deposited was from a strain of dysentery-causing microbe isolated from soldier in WW1 Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jun 06, 2018 10:53 AM ET | Last Updated: June 6, 2018 A capsule of original penicillin mold from which Alexander Fleming made the drug known as penicillin on view at Bonham's auction house in London in 2017. (Alastair Grant/Associated Press) Scientists seeking new ways to fight drug-resistant superbugs have mapped the genomes of more than 3,000 bacteria, including samples of a bug taken from Alexander Fleming's nose and a dysentery-causing strain from a World War One soldier.   The DNA of deadly strains of plague, dysentery and cholera were also decoded in what the researchers said was an effort to better understand some of the world's most dangerous diseases and develop new ways to fight them.   The samples from Fleming — the British scientist credited with discovering the first antibiotic, penicillin, in 1928 — were among more than 5,500 bugs at Britain's National Collection of Type Cultures (NCTC) one of the world's largest collections of clinically relevant bacteria.   The first bacteria to be deposited in the NCTC was a strain of dysentery-causing Shigella flexneri that was isolated in 1915 from a soldier in the trenches of World War One. U of C antibiotic study helps physicians battle dangerous bacteria Drug-resistant 'nightmare bacteria' pose growing threat, CDC says   "Knowing very accurately what bacteria looked like before and during the introduction of antibiotics and vaccines, and comparing them to current strains, … shows us how they have responded to these treatments," said Julian Parkhill of Britain's Wellcome Sanger Institute who co-led the research.   "This in turn helps us develop new antibiotics and vaccines."   Specialists estimate that around 70 per cent of bacteria are already resistant to at least one antibiotic that is commonly used to treat them.   This has made the evolution of "superbugs" that can evade one or multiple drugs one of the biggest threats facing medicine today.   Among the most serious risks are tuberculosis — which infects more than 10.4 million people a year and killed 1.7 million in 2016 alone — and gonorrhoea, a sexually transmitted disease that infects 78 million people a year and which the World Health Organization says is becoming almost untreatable.   The genomic maps of the 3,000 strains are to be published on the NCTC's website and made freely available to researchers worldwide to help them in the development of potential new diagnostic tests, vaccines or treatments.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Drug-resistant 'nightmare bacteria' pose growing threat, CDC says Alexander Fleming's penicillin mould nets $14K at auction U of C antibiotic study helps physicians battle dangerous bacteria Antibiotic-resistant microbes date back 450 million years, study finds External Links 3,000 dangerous bacteria genomes sequenced, Wellcome Sanger Institute Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now