Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Skeletal remains of 8 people found in wooden boat washed up on Japanese beach Bodies that had been reduced to skeletons were found on Monday in a small wooden ship that washed up on a beach in northern Japan, the country's coast guard said. Social Sharing Experts say North Korean food shortages and hostile weather conditions could be to blame Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 27, 2017 10:54 AM ET | Last Updated: November 28, 2017 A wooden boat drifted ashore with eight partially skeletal bodies in Oga, Akita Prefecture, Japan, on Monday. (Kyodo/via Reuters) Bodies that had been reduced to skeletons were found on Monday in a small wooden ship that washed up on a beach in northern Japan, the country's coast guard said. The coast guard said it was working to establish the nationalities of the people whose remains were on the ship. The bodies of two males, similarly partly skeletonized, were also found over the weekend on the western shore of the Sea of Japan island of Sado. Although the nationalities of these two have not yet been established, what appeared to be North Korean cigarettes and life-jackets with Korean lettering on them were nearby, the coast guard's Sado station said. North Korean fishing boats carrying corpses wash up in Japan Both local police and the coast guard said the two may have been from North Korea. Monday's discovery occurred on a beach 70 kilometres north of a marina where police last week found eight men who said they were from North Korea. Police said they appeared to be fishermen whose boat, found nearby, had run into trouble. 'Dangerous' seasonal weather Experts say North Korea's food shortages could be behind what is potentially a series of accidents involving North Korean ships. "North Korea pushes so hard for its people to gather more fish so that they can make up their food shortages," said Seo Yu-suk, research manager of North Korean Studies Institution in Seoul. Pictures of prosperity contrast with hardships in North Korea The world according to Kim: Inside North Korea's efforts to keep everyone out Small and old North Korean ships that sail beyond its coastal waters are vulnerable to bad weather, he said. Yoshihiko Yamada, professor at Japan's Tokai University, said fishermen operating in the Sea of Japan have just entered a season of hostile weather conditions.   "During the summer, the Sea of Japan is quite calm. But it starts to get choppy when November comes. It gets dangerous when northwesterly winds start to blow," he said. A total of 43 wooden ships that were believed to have come from the Korean peninsula washed up on Japanese shores or were seen to be drifting off Japan's coast from January to Nov. 22 this year, compared with 66 ships for the whole of last year, the coast guard said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories The world according to Kim: Inside North Korea's efforts to keep everyone out Pictures of prosperity contrast with hardships in North Korea North Korean fishing boats carrying corpses wash up in Japan Daring defection of North Korean soldier captured in dramatic video Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now