Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Hamilton Skelly, rookie councillor, wants to run for PCs in Flamborough-Glanbrook Donna Skelly, elected to city council last year, will make her third run for a provincial seat. Another candidate has been working toward the nomination for a year. Social Sharing 'Disappointed' would-be candidate has been working toward the nomination for a year Samantha Craggs · CBC News · Posted: Sep 25, 2017 1:51 PM ET | Last Updated: September 25, 2017 Donna Skelly was elected to Ward 7 on the central Mountain last March. Next June, she'll take her third provincial run for the Ontario PC party, this time in the newly drawn riding of Flamborough-Glanbrook. (Samantha Craggs/CBC) comments Donna Skelly, who won a Ward 7 council seat by fewer than 100 votes in a byelection last year, wants to run for the Ontario PC party in Flamborough-Glanbrook. To say that I'm disappointed is an understatement.- Nick Lauwers, who had hoped to win the nomination And that makes her the second Hamilton city councillor to announce plans to make a run for a provincial seat. Skelly would face off against self described "blue Liberal" Judi Partridge, councillor for Ward 15 in Flamborough. Partridge said in July that the Progressive Conservatives courted her to run for the Tories too. Partridge chooses Liberals over PCs after both courted her for Flamborough-Glanbrook Skelly says she wants to make what will be her third run at provincial politics in the June 7 election. Last March, Skelly won a central Mountain council seat by 92 votes. She was first in a slate of 22 contenders. Nick Lauwers, shown at a Flamborough Chamber of Commerce all-candidates debate in 2014, spent a year selling memberships and rounding up supporters in the hope of winning the Flamborough-Glanbrook nomination. (Samantha Craggs/CBC) The municipal election is next October, which means both she and Partidge can run for council again if they don't win the provincial seat. Skelly, a former CHCH personality, announced her intentions Monday after weeks of speculation. The newly drawn riding encompasses parts of the former Ancaster-Dundas-Flamborough-Westdale riding, where she has run twice before. The NDP haven't selected a candidate for the riding yet. Donna Skelly spent the most in Ward 7 race - and had Conservative backing Donna Skelly wins Ward 7 byelection to be newest city councillor In a statement, Skelly touted her fiscal conservatism and money saving at the council table. "Everyday people across Flamborough-Glanbrook tell me they want a government they trust," she said, mentioning small business and hydro rates. Skelly isn't the only one who wants the chance. But the other contender said Thursday that the party will hand pick the candidate. Nick Lauwers, a mental health therapist, said in a statement that he spent a year making phone calls, knocking on doors and selling party memberships. Here's my statement re: my candidacy for the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/PCPO?src=hash">#PCPO</a> nomination in Flamborough–Glanbrook. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HamOnt?src=hash">#HamOnt</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ONpoli?src=hash">#ONpoli</a> <a href="https://t.co/K3bL58Qih0">pic.twitter.com/K3bL58Qih0</a>&mdash;@NickLauwersON But he expects the Oct. 5 nomination will be uncontested. "I will not be given an opportunity to represent you as the PC candidate for Flamborough-Glanbrook," said Lauwers, who also ran for the Hamilton-Wentworth District School Board in 2014 and lost by 11 votes. "That opportunity is being given to someone else." "To say that I'm disappointed is an understatement." Lauwers's website includes endorsements from Flamborough-Glanbrook MP David Sweet and Niagara West MP Dean Allison. Coun. Judi Partridge, with Ted McMeekin, will run for the Liberals in Flamborough-Glanbrook. McMeekin, a Liberal incumbent, will run in Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas. (Samantha Craggs/CBC) The PC party has been dogged by contentious nominations leading up to an election some polls show they have a good chance at winning. Hamilton West-Ancaster-Dundas (HWAD) is one of them. Would-be candidate challenging PC nomination ordered to pay party $136K in legal costs Hamilton police consider handing off investigation into alleged fixing of PC nomination battle Ben Levitt, a 25-year-old staffer in Sweet's office, won the HWAD nomination at a meeting earlier this year. His two main challengers, Vikram Singh and Jeff Peller, both allege the party tampered with votes and stuffed ballot boxes. Peller and Singh both filed complaints with the party for a formal review, but leader Patrick Brown declared Levitt the candidate. Then both filed requests for judicial reviews in Ontario court. A panel of judges will hear those cases in the coming months. Second PC hopeful asks court to overturn Conservative nomination Singh's case is particularly interesting. The Dundas lawyer tried to introduce a recorded conversation with party insiders as evidence. The party fought it, and a judge said Singh had to pay the party $136,315 in legal fees. On Sept. 15, a panel of three judges stayed that decision. They said the issue of the conversation and the costs should be heard by the same panel of judges conducting the judicial review. In an affidavit in Singh's case, party president Rick Dykstra also said that Brown can appoint whoever he wants as a candidate regardless of what happens at a nomination meeting. He also said that Singh, 31, didn't fit the same "specific element of diversity" Levitt did. That case appears again in Toronto divisional court on Sept. 29. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Samantha Craggs Reporter Samantha Craggs is a CBC News reporter based in Hamilton, Ont. She has a particular interest in politics and social justice stories, and tweets live from Hamilton city hall. Follow her on Twitter at @SamCraggsCBC, or email her at samantha.craggs@cbc.ca CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now