Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Some permanent residents of Canada will be allowed to leave Wuhan if they accompany a Canadian child Permanent residents of Canada with children will be allowed to leave the coronavirus-affected region in Wuhan, China on a government-chartered flight, says Foreign Affairs Minister François-Philippe Champagne. Social Sharing Government sending chartered flight to repatriate Canadians trapped in coronavirus zone Kathleen Harris · CBC News · Posted: Feb 03, 2020 10:20 AM ET | Last Updated: February 3, 2020 A man wearing a mask walks in the Chinatown district of downtown Toronto. There have been four cases of coronavirus reported in Canada. (Carlos Osorio/Reuters) comments Permanent residents of Canada with children will be allowed to leave the coronavirus-affected region in Wuhan, China on a government-chartered flight, says Foreign Affairs Minister François-Philippe Champagne. During a news conference Monday in Ottawa, Champagne said the Chinese government has agreed to allow some permanent residents with kids to take part in the airlift. In order to prevent the spread of the virus, however, Beijing won't allow permanent residents without children to leave the quarantine zone. The decision was China's and is consistent with Chinese protocols to allow repatriation of other countries' citizens, Champagne said. Health Minister Patty Hajdu clarified the rule on CBC News Network's Power & Politics Monday, saying that China will only make an exception to allow non-foreigners to leave if they are the guardian accompanying a child who is a Canadian citizen. "In that case, China has agreed to allow a permanent resident or a Chinese citizen to travel with that child who is a Canadian," she told host Vassy Kapelos. Hajdu said China continues to take a hard line on other cases in an effort to contain the disease. Federal officials are now on the ground in Wuhan to coordinate the evacuation of Canadians trapped in the coronavirus-affected region of the country. Champagne said there are 280 Canadian passport-holders, and 24 others, who want to board the chartered flight. A second chartered plane has been secured to transport people if it is required, he said. Champagne on diplomatic relations with China Politics1 year ago 0:45Foreign Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne describes the efficient relations between Canada and China when it comes to the novel coronavirus. 0:45 There is still no firm timeline yet for the flight, as Canada is still awaiting final approval from China to enter Wuhan's airspace, which is now closed. Formal identification and flight manifest information is still getting final approval. "This is a multiple-step process, which takes time," Champagne said. Racism 'still very much alive' in Canada as stereotypes around coronavirus spread, some warn Canada to quarantine citizens evacuated from Wuhan for 2 weeks over coronavirus concerns Staff from the Global Affairs rapid deployment team are already on the ground in Wuhan and in Hanoi, Vietnam, from where the chartered aircraft will leave for Wuhan, he said. Hajdu said steps will be taken to screen all passengers and segregate them if they begin showing symptoms during the flight. To date, she said, no Canadians in the Wuhan area have reported infection — which would disqualify them from leaving the quarantine zone. All staff taking part in the airlift will be wearing protective gear. Hajdu on the conditions in Wuhan Politics1 year ago 0:38Health Minister Patty Hajdu describes the conditions in Wuhan to illustrate why Canadians there want to leave. 0:38 The federal government will absorb the costs of the airlift and quarantine for the passengers. "This is what Canadians do. We help each other," Hajdu said. "We've got 300 Canadians stuck in a quarantined city where life is becoming incredibly difficult, if not almost impossible, in some situations." The number of cases of the new coronavirus has reached nearly 17,500 worldwide; 362 have died. There have been four cases in Canada to date — three in Ontario and one in British Columbia. Canada's Chief Public Health Officer Theresa Tam said developing a vaccine could take up to a year. For now, she said, the best way to prevent the spread of the virus is to restrict its transmission. Tam talks preparedness and planning Politics1 year ago 0:44Chief Public Health Officer of Canada Theresa Tam describes how she and her colleagues have been preparing for outbreaks like the novel coronavirus. 0:44 Tam said China has made "extraordinary" efforts in that regard. "We have never seen [such] large-scale quarantine measures in modern public health history," she said. "So the world, of course, is waiting to know if it does work." Tam said that even if the containment efforts do work, the number of cases could continue to climb before dropping because the incubation period lasts up to 14 days, she said. On Sunday, Global Affairs Canada announced that the Canadians to be evacuated from the Hubei province where the outbreak originated, as well as government officials and air crew involved in the airlift, will be quarantined for two weeks at the Trenton, Ont., military base upon their arrival in Canada as a precaution. Coronavirus deaths surpass 400 in China as new hospital for infected opens Beijing says coronavirus death toll now 361, Philippines reports 1st fatality outside China In the House of Commons today, Conservative deputy leader Leona Alleslev asked the government to explain why it's taking Canada longer than other countries to repatriate its citizens. Canada-China relations "What is the holdup? Is the delay on evacuation due to the disastrous state of Canada-China relations?" she asked. That's "not at all" the case, Champagne replied, saying that the process to assess the needs of Canadians in the outbreak zone, charter a plane and get the required authorizations takes time. "We will be there for Canadians in Wuhan to be repatriated and I will inform Canadians every step of the way on what this government is doing for them," he said. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said the government is doing all it can to help support stranded Canadians. "We're working hard with Chinese authorities in terms of bringing people home as quickly as we can," he said. "We understand there are many steps, both health and safety steps, that have to be gone through, but we're looking forward to bringing them home soon." Trudeau on working with China on the coronavirus Politics1 year ago 0:15Prime Minister Justin Trudeau explains how his government is working with Beijing to bring Canadians home from Wuhan. 0:15 China, Canada 'in communication' In a briefing Monday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said that China will make arrangements and provide assistance to countries working to repatriate their citizens "following international customary practices and our epidemic control measures." She did not offer specifics on a potential timeframe. "I understand China and Canada are in communication on this," Hua said, according to a translated transcript of the briefing. Watch: What we know about the new coronavirus so far: What we actually know about the coronavirus CBC News1 year ago 5:10Information about the coronavirus outbreak is spreading fast, but what do we actually know about the illness? CBC News medical contributor and family physician Dr. Peter Lin breaks down the facts about what it is, where it came from, how it spreads and what you can do to protect yourself. 5:10 Hua also criticized the United States for imposing international travel restrictions and raising fears. "Most countries appreciate and support China's efforts to fight against the novel coronavirus, and we understand and respect them when they adopt or enhance quarantine measures at border entry. But in the meantime, some countries, the U.S. in particular, have inappropriately overreacted, which certainly runs counter to WHO (World Health Organization) advice," she said. "I also noted that the Canadian Minister of Health said Canada won't follow the U.S. and impose travel restrictions on Chinese or foreign nationals who have been to China. Canada believes the ban of entry has no basis, which is a sharp contrast to the U.S. behaviours." Global health emergency WHO has declared the coronavirus outbreak a global health emergency, but has praised China for its efforts to contain the virus. Hua said China hopes countries will make "reasonable, calm and science-based judgments and responses." "In an open, transparent and highly responsible attitude, China will enhance co-operation with the WHO and the international community. We have confidence and capability in winning this battle as soon as possible," she said. On Monday, senior officials from the departments of Global Affairs, Transport, Border Security and Public Safety appeared before the House of Commons health committee examining Canada's response to the coronavirus outbreak. Heather Jeffrey of Global Affairs Canada said the government is working to support all Canadians and permanent residents, adding there is no "one-size-fits-all solution." She said that one of the biggest challenges is clearing hurdles for people to exit the quarantine zone in order to join the airlift. Paul MacKinnon, executive vice-president of the Canada Border Services Agency, said new signs advising people of symptoms and procedures were erected at the Montreal, Toronto and Vancouver international airports before being added at other major airports across the country. Border service kiosks also introduced new disinfectant procedures and border officers have received training to screen arriving passengers who may be ill, he said. Corrections This story has been updated from a previous version that reported, based on information provided by the government, that China would allow non-Canadian citizens to board the flight if they were travelling with Canadian citizens as part of a family. In fact, Health Minister Patty Hajdu later clarified that the exception would be made only for non-citizens travelling with a Canadian minor who would otherwise be unaccompanied. Feb 03, 2020 6:21 PM ET With files from the CBC's Philip Ling CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Canada to quarantine citizens evacuated from Wuhan for 2 weeks over coronavirus concerns Coronavirus deaths surpass 400 in China as new hospital for infected opens Racism 'still very much alive' in Canada as stereotypes around coronavirus spread, some warn Beijing says coronavirus death toll now 361, Philippines reports 1st fatality outside China Japan prime minister downplays worries of coronavirus impact on Summer Olympics Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now