Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Special envoy Bob Rae headed to Myanmar next week Canada's new special envoy to Myanmar is heading to the region next week, months into a humanitarian crisis that has reportedly displaced close to a million Rohingya Muslims. Social Sharing 'I don't pretend to be somebody who can work miracles,' former Liberal MP says of Rohingya crisis CBC News · Posted: Oct 23, 2017 1:48 PM ET | Last Updated: October 23, 2017 Bob Rae, special envoy to Myanmar, holds a press conference in the foyer of the House of Commons on Parliament Hill in Ottawa on Monday, October 23, 2017. (Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press) Canada's new special envoy to Myanmar is heading to the region next week, months into a humanitarian crisis that has reportedly displaced close to a million Rohingya Muslims. "I don't pretend to be somebody who can work miracles," said Rae. "It is a humanitarian crisis of extraordinary proportions. It is going to require a lot of persistent engagement from Canada as well as from other countries." Rae said he'll write an independent report out of his trip with advice for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, which will be made public. While overseas, Rae said he hopes to meet with as many officials as possible in Myanmar and Bangledesh to "get at the reality of the situation."  AnalysisSome 600,000 refugees later, Ottawa digs in on dealing with Myanmar on Rohingya crisis Trudeau appoints Bob Rae as special envoy to Myanmar "I think the point is you keep on trying and working and you keep on working every connection and every door that you can. I think it's a matter of being persistent," he said. His mandate lasts until the end of January and then "we'll see what happens." Rae named as special envoy to Myanmar Politics News3 years ago 2:20Former Liberal MP and premier of Ontario Bob Rae will head to Myanmar next week to report on the crisis that has displaced 900,000 Rohingya. 2:20 While in the region, Rae will meet with Trudeau when the prime minister heads to Vietnam for an APEC leaders meeting early next month. Rae, a former premier of Ontario and former federal interim Liberal leader, told Power & Politics guest host Catherine Cullen he has no doubt he'll have concrete suggestions for Canada. "I wouldn't have taken this on if I didn't feel that the government of Canada was prepared to do more," he said in an interview airing Monday. 900,000 forced to flee On Monday, Minister of International Development Marie-Claude Bibeau cited new United Nation figures that put the number of Rohingya people who have left Myanmar for neighbouring Bangladesh at about 900,000. The bulk of those refugees, about 600,000, have fled since the end of August, when the Myanmar military began a violent crackdown against Rohingya militants following attacks in which several security forces were killed. Rohingya refugees walk together after crossing the Naf River as they flee violence in Myanmar to reach Bangladesh in Palongkhali near Ukhia on October 16, 2017. (Munir Uz Zaman/AFP/Getty Images) The military response, which has come with the support of Buddhist nationalist mobs, has seen villages burned and an untold number of Rohingya killed. Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland called the attacks "crimes against humanity" and said the Liberal government is looking at different ways Canada can be supportive, including looking at resettlement of refugees. Bibeau also announced $12 million in humanitarian aid to help those affected by the crises, bringing the total pledged by Canada up to $25 million so far this year. There's been pressure on the Canadian government to strip Myanmar's state counsellor, Aung San Suu Kyi, of honourary Canadian citizenship she was given back in 2007. The Nobel laureate has disappointed supporters for not doing more to protect the Rohingya. Rae wouldn't comment on questions around her culpability. "I don't think it's a good idea for me as a special envoy to start out my trip with my conclusions," he told Power & Politics guest host Catherine Cullen. Rae said he hasn't secured permission to enter Rakine state yet and is still working on getting a visa, but isn't worried yet. His upcoming trips won't be his first, Rae said he visited Myanmar's south four months ago. Canada's Ambassador to Myanmar, Karen MacArthur, is one of few people who have seen the troubled state since the displacement started. Her recent trip, under the protection of the border guard police, was seen as controversial since her escorts are part of the system accused in the violence against Rohingya. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Some 600,000 refugees later, Ottawa digs in on dealing with Myanmar on Rohingya crisis Trudeau appoints Bob Rae as special envoy to Myanmar 'I'll never stop fighting' says Kitchener Rohingya man after 2-week stint in Bangladesh camps Myanmar army killed hundreds of Rohingya in 'scorched-earth campaign,' Amnesty says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now