Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Syria's alleged use of chemical weapons again under international scrutiny The United States and 28 other countries are launching a new plan to better identify and punish anyone who uses chemical weapons, amid new reports of a suspected chemical attack in Syria. Social Sharing Tillerson blasts Syria patron Russia after purported incident of gas occurred Monday in Damascus The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 23, 2018 11:22 AM ET | Last Updated: January 23, 2018 A Syrian boy holds an oxygen mask over the face of an infant at a makeshift hospital following a reported gas attack on the rebel-held besieged town of Douma in the eastern Ghouta region of the capital Damascus on Monday. (Hasan Mohamed/AFP/Getty Images) Russia is ultimately to blame for any use of chemical weapons in Syria, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Tuesday amid reports of a suspected chemical attack this week near the capital, Damascus. Tillerson said Russia is violating a 2013 agreement it made with the U.S. on the removal of chemical weapons from Syria and is helping the Syrian government breach the Chemical Weapons Convention, which bans their use. Turkey won't step back from campaign against Kurds, gas attack reported in Damascus Chemical weapons watchdog confirms sarin used in April attack on Syrian town The secretary of state said Russia must stop vetoing UN Security Council resolutions on holding those who use such weapons accountable. If it cannot support a future Security Council resolution to that end, it should abstain, Tillerson said. "There is simply no denying that Russia, by shielding its Syrian ally, has breached its commitments to the United States as a framework guarantor" of the 2013 agreement, Tillerson said. "Russia's failure to resolve the chemical weapons issue in Syria calls into question its relevance to the resolution of the overall crisis. At a bare minimum, Russia must stop vetoing and at least abstain on future UNSC resolutions on this issue," he said. France censures Syrian lab Tillerson spoke in Paris, where the U.S., France and 22 other countries launched a new organization aimed at identifying and punishing anyone who uses chemical weapons. The group plans to publish information about chemical attacks to name and shame perpetrators and eventually sanction them. UN efforts to punish perpetrators in Syria have failed, repeatedly blocked by Russia. Rex Tillerson said during the International Partnership against Impunity for the Use of Chemical Weapons in Paris that Russia must stop shielding Syria from accountability. (Philippe Wojazer/Reuters) Activists and rescue teams said the Syrian government launched an attack Monday with suspected poisonous gas that affected nearly 20 civilians in a rebel-held suburb near Damascus. The Syrian government denies using chemical weapons; Russia says extremists have used chemical weapons in the past. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said, "Those who carry out chemical weapons attacks need to be made aware that we know who they are, and we will go after them." North Korea attempted to help Syria's chemical weapons program: UN report AnalysisEven in world's most-documented war, justice is a 'long-term game': Nahlah Ayed The French government announced Tuesday that it is freezing the assets of companies that help furnish material to the Syrian Scientific Studies and Research Center, a Syrian lab accused of producing chemical weapons. France says affiliated companies based in multiple countries have been furnishing materials for the manufacture of chemical weapons, including sarin gas. From Oct. 2017: Syria chemical attack clues News8 years ago 6:02Syrian Dr. Abo Akram says clues point to chemical gas as the culprit in the deaths of hundreds of victims 6:02 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now