Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Syria missile attack kills 26, could be latest salvo in Israel-Iran hostilities A missile attack in Syria's northern region has killed 26 pro-government fighters, mostly Iranians, a Syria war monitoring group said Monday. Social Sharing Iranian media gave conflicting reports about the overnight incident The Associated Press · Posted: Apr 30, 2018 6:17 AM ET | Last Updated: April 30, 2018 Israeli Minister of Defence Avigdor Lieberman, left, speaks to the media while meeting with Defence Secretary Jim Mattis, on April 26, at the Pentagon. Both countries have accused Iran of destabilizing Syria, and the Mideast in general. (Jacquelyn Martin/Associated Press) A missile attack targeting government outposts in Syria's northern region killed 26 pro-government fighters, mostly Iranians, a Syria war monitoring group said Monday. Iranian media gave conflicting reports about the overnight incident amid speculation it was carried out by neighbouring Israel. The attack came hours after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu talked to President Donald Trump on the phone. The White House said the two leaders discussed the continuing threats and challenges facing the Middle East, "especially the problems posed by the Iranian regime's destabilizing activities." The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the late Sunday night attack appears to have been carried out by Israel and targeted an arms depot for surface-to-surface missiles at a base in northern Syria known as Brigade 47. The Observatory said four Syrians were also among casualties. AnalysisWith Iran operating in Syria, Israel girds itself for 'First Northern War' AnalysisWhat could start the next war? 'Accident, miscalculation, blunder' It said the death toll could rise as the attack also wounded 60 fighters and there were several others are still missing. Iranian state television, citing Syrian media, reported the attack. However, an Iranian semi-official news agency denied reports that Iranian fighters were killed or that Iranian-run bases were hit. The Tasnim news agency quoted an unnamed Iranian informed official in its report but did not elaborate on the denial. Another semi-official news agency, ISNA, said the strike killed 18 Iranians, including a commander, in a suburb of the central city of Hama. It cited "local sources and activists" for its report. The missiles targeted buildings and centres which likely include a weapons depot, ISNA reported. There was no immediate comment from Israel. Tehran has sent thousands of Iran-backed fighters to back President Bashar al-Assad's forces in the country's seven-year civil war. Syria, Lebanon media report attack The attack comes amid soaring tensions between Iran and Israel following an airstrike earlier this month on Syria's T4 air base in central province of Homs that killed seven Iranian military personnel. Tehran has vowed to retaliate for the T4 attack. Syria, Iran and Russia blamed Israel for that T4 attack. Israel did not confirm or deny it. Israel Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman said in an interview published last Thursday that his country will strike Tehran if attacked by archenemy Iran, escalating an already tense war of words between the two adversaries. Syria, Russia blame Israel for airstrike on Syrian base that killed 4 Iranians Israel's warning to enemies confirms destruction of 2007 Syria nuclear reactor Iran's semi-official Tasnim news agency on Monday quoted chief of Fatimayoun Brigade, an Iran-backed Afghan militia in Syria fighting alongside Iranian forces, as saying their base near Aleppo was not targeted during the strikes and they had no casualties. It did not elaborate. Earlier on Monday, Syrian TV reported a "new aggression," with missiles targeting military outposts in northern Syria. The state-run television reported that the missiles targeted several military positions before midnight Sunday outposts in the Hama and Aleppo countryside. Lebanon's Al-Akhbar daily, which is considered close to the militant Iranian-backed Hezbollah group and the Syrian government, said the attack targeted "important arms depots used by the (Syrian) army and Iran's Revolutionary Guards." It said that missiles used in the attack appear to have been bunker buster. Syria-based opposition media activist Mohamad Rasheed said that base that came under attack is about 10 kilometres outside the city of Hama adding that airstrike led to several explosions in the arms depot. He added that the area is known as the Maarin Mountain or Mountain 47. Rasheed said that some of the exploding missiles in the arms depot struck parts of Hama adding that residents in areas near the base fled their homes. He said the base has been run by Iranian and Iran-backed fighters from Lebanon, Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Pompeo says U.S. will demand 'irreversible' steps toward shutting down North Korea's nuclear weapons program AnalysisU.S. airstrikes on Syria risk becoming 'historical footnote' without wider strategy With files from Reuters CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis U.S. airstrikes on Syria risk becoming 'historical footnote' without wider strategy Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now