Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Syria, Russia blame Israel for airstrike on Syrian base that killed 4 Iranians Four Iranian military personnel have been killed in an airstrike on a Syrian airbase, Iran's Fars news agency says, as Syria and its main allies Iran and Russia blame Israel for carrying out the attack. Social Sharing At least 14 people of various nationalities died in attack, human rights group says Thomson Reuters · Posted: Apr 09, 2018 2:27 AM ET | Last Updated: April 9, 2018 This image taken from video obtained from Ugarit News, which has been authenticated based on its contents and Associated Press reporting, shows a Syrian fighter jet in a hangar after rebels captured Jarrah airfield in Aleppo province on Feb. 12, 2013. Russian and Syrian state media claim Israeli fighter jets struck a Syrian airbase overnight. (The Associated Press) Four Iranian military personnel were killed in an airstrike on a Syrian airbase on Sunday, Iran's Fars news agency said, as Syria and its main allies Iran and Russia blamed Israel for carrying out the attack. Israel has not confirmed or denied mounting the raid, but Israeli officials said the Tiyas, or T4, airbase near Homs was being used by troops from Iran, and that Israel would not accept such a presence in Syria by its arch foe. The Revolutionary Guards, Iran's most powerful military force, has been fighting in support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad for several years. More than 1,000 Iranians have been killed in Syria, including senior members of the Guards. Trump slams Assad, Putin for 'mindless chemical attack in Syria' Russian aid plan for Syria's eastern Ghouta area is not enough, UN says The semi-official Fars news said on Monday that four "defenders of the shrine" were killed in the airstrike. Iran calls its fighters in Syria the defenders of the shrine, as it says the forces are there to protect the Zeinab Shrine, a Shia holy site near Damascus. Drone operator killed? Some Iranian media reported that one of those killed was a member of the Revolutionary Guards Aerospace Force, a division that operates drones. Israel said in February it had intercepted an Iranian drone launched from Syria, and carried out airstrikes against air defences and Iranian targets in the country. Iran denied at the time the downing of its drone in Israel. Chemical weapons watchdog probes recent Syria attacks 'Hell on Earth:' What the assault on eastern Ghouta says about Syria's future The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a British-based monitor, said at least 14 people were killed in the Sunday's raid, including some fighters of various nationalities. Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Bahram Qasemi condemned the attack, calling it "an obvious breach of international laws that would make the Syrian crisis and regional equations more complicated." The attack took place hours after U.S. President Donald Trump warned of a "big price to pay" following the reports of a poison gas attack on the rebel-held town of Douma that killed dozens of people, including children. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Trump slams Assad, Putin for 'mindless chemical attack in Syria' WHO presses Syria to approve evacuation of dozens of critically ill people in Ghouta Russian aid plan for Syria's eastern Ghouta area is not enough, UN says Chemical weapons watchdog probes recent Syria attacks 'Hell on Earth:' What the assault on eastern Ghouta says about Syria's future Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now