Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Tanya Granic Allen no longer an Ontario PC party candidate after 'irresponsible' comments, Doug Ford says Ontario PC Leader Doug Ford says former party leadership hopeful Tanya Granic Allen will no longer be a candidate for the party. Social Sharing Move follows Ont. Liberals release of 2014 video in which they say Granic Allen 'spewed hatred and homophobia' CBC News · Posted: May 05, 2018 5:55 PM ET | Last Updated: May 6, 2018 Ford made the announcement about Tanya Granic Allen in a tweet just before 6 p.m. on Saturday. (David Donnelly/CBC) Ontario PC Leader Doug Ford says former party leadership hopeful Tanya Granic Allen will no longer be a candidate for the party. Ford made the announcement in a tweet just before 6 p.m. on Saturday. Wynne appoints candidate to challenge Tanya Granic Allen in Mississauga Centre Tanya Granic Allen to run for PC nomination in Mississauga Centre "We are a party comprised of people with diverse views that if expressed responsibly we would respect. However, the fact is her characterization of certain issues and people has been irresponsible," Ford said in the statement. "Our party remains focused on defeating Kathleen Wynne and bringing relief to families across Ontario." Granic Allen won the PC nomination for Mississauga-Centre last month, and Premier Kathleen Wynne appointed Bobbie Daid as the Liberals candidate in the riding shortly after. Granic Allen 'disappointed' by decision Granic Allen was not immediately available for comment but responded to the announcement on Twitter, saying she was "disappointed" by the news and would have more to say in the coming days.  Later Saturday evening, Ford said on Twitter that Natalia Kusendova, the PC runner-up for the Mississauga Centre riding, is now the party's candidate.  "She is a welcome addition to our strong and diverse PC team," Ford said. "I look forward to working with her to defeat Kathleen Wynne on June 7." Ford's announcements come the same day as the Ontario Liberals zeroed in on a 2014 video in which they say Granic Allen "spewed hatred and homophobia" while discussing sexual education in Croatia.  The video, which was edited and posted on the Liberals' website, shows Granic Allen saying that when she sees Croatia "trying to push radical sexualization on the young, or gay marriage, I almost vomit in disbelief." Ontario PC Leader Doug Ford says former party leadership hopeful Tanya Granic Allen will no longer be a candidate for the party. (Chris Young/Canadian Press) CBC News has not independently verified the video's origins. As of 7 p.m. Saturday evening, her website was still up and running with a message on the front page saying, "Tanya Granic Allen wins PC Nomination. Thank you! We did it!" 'Party's open to everyone,' says Ford Last month, the social conservative Granic Allen came under fire for online comments made years ago regarding Muslims and gay marriage. In a 2013 social media post on Quebec's controversial proposal for a charter of values, Granic Allen described facial veils worn by some Muslim women as "masks." "I don't believe people should dress like ninjas when going for an afternoon stroll. I don't believe that people should dress like bank robbers when going to vote," she said. "My daughter loves wearing a Spider-man mask, but I forbid her from wearing it out in public." Tanya Granic Allen under fire for online comments against gay marriage, Muslim dress Doug Ford says 'we've got to consult parents' when it comes to minors' access to abortion Asked to comment on such posts, Granic Allen denied that they reflected Islamophobic views. She also denied that a tweet in which she wished the Queen would not allow gay marriage meant she held homophobic views. "Somebody wrote that gay marriage would force the Queen to break her oath and I simply said, 'Well the Queen should keep her oath,' because we should not lie," she said. Asked last month about his views on her comments, Ford told CBC News that the sentiments expressed by Granic Allen — who was at the time seeking to run in the Toronto-area riding of Mississauga Centre — do not reflect his views or those of the party. "Our party's open to everyone, absolutely everyone. Am I supporting her? I don't support any candidate per se. It's going to be up to the people in Mississauga Centre to make that decision. But I can tell you one thing, every single person is welcome into the PC party." Muslim organization welcomes decision The National Council of Canadian Muslims said in a statement that it welcomed the decision to remove Granic Allen as a PC candidate. "The dismissal of Ms. Granic Allen is long overdue given the Islamophobic and bigoted comments attributed to her. There is no place for that kind of intolerance in Canadian politics," the organization's communications coordinator said. Ford has been under constant pressure from the Liberals and New Democrats to drop Granic Allen from the ballot, but repeatedly refused. Ford and Granic Allen were considered the more socially conservative candidates in the Tory leadership race, and Granic Allen was the only one to appear by Ford's side as he was declared the winner in March. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Wynne appoints candidate to challenge Tanya Granic Allen in Mississauga Centre Tanya Granic Allen to run for PC nomination in Mississauga Centre Tanya Granic Allen under fire for online comments against gay marriage, Muslim dress Doug Ford says 'we've got to consult parents' when it comes to minors' access to abortion Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now