Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Hamilton·Analysis The leader you don't know vs. the leader you don't like: Robert Fisher Premier Kathleen Wynne's approval ratings have dropped to a record low but what do you know about the Progressive Conservative leader who might replace her as Premier? Who is Patrick Brown? Social Sharing Robert Fisher's Ontario political analysis appears here every two weeks CBC News · Posted: Mar 24, 2017 11:01 AM ET | Last Updated: March 24, 2017 9:41The leader you don't know vs. the leader you don't like: Robert FisherNext year’s provincial election might be a contest between the leader you don’t know and the leader you don’t like. The CBC's Robert Fisher talks about the way the public views Kathleen Wynne and Patrick Brown. 9:41 comments When it comes to public opinion the news this Friday, for Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne's, couldn't get much worse. Just 12 per cent of people in the province, according to a poll released Friday by the Angus Reid Institute, approve of the job she is doing. 81 per cent disapprove. Wynne has the lowest approval rating among all Canadian premiers measured in the poll though numbers for P.E.I. were not included in the data. It is also Wynne's lowest-ever approval rating in an Angus Reid survey since she became premier. Fisher spoke with the CBC's Conrad Collaco about the return to legislature work for MPP. Listen to the full interview by clicking the image at the top of the page or read an edited and abridged transcript below. Robert Fisher, Ontario politics analyst What do you make of the Premier's drop to 12 per cent in her approval rating? The survey from Angus Reid is continuing the bad news for Kathleen Wynne. Seems to be no bottom to her support. Someone tweeted that it's ironic that her approval rating is lower than her hydro cut of 25 per cent. While people may be happy with the cut they may wonder is this a death bed repentance? A Hail Mary pass from the Premier to save her government? Kathleen Wynne's approval rating hits record low in poll It's interesting to know the poll was taken after the announcement on hydro rates. There's no indication at this point the rate cut will prevent this downward spiral. No turnaround yet. What do you think of the new Patrick Brown ads put out by the PC's? They are all designed to reach undecided voters. You get the impression the Tories want you to know that he's the leader of a 'big tent' party. You see Mr. Brown and some, not all, members of his caucus walking in last summer's gay pride parade. While Mr. Brown and his party continue to top the polls a lot of voters still don't know what he stands for.  Ontario PC leader says he'll support anti-Islamophobia motion Where does 19-year-old Niagara MPP Sam Oosterhoff, a social conservative, fit in Brown's 'big tent' party? When you go back to the time when Mr. Brown became leader he won the support of social conservatives. He quickly realized that his past on issues like gay marriage and abortion would likely not get him elected as Premier of Ontario so you saw this change. At the same time Mr. Oosterhoff is a very important part of the caucus. He may be only 19 but he won re-nomination in the riding of Niagara West. He's a factor but he's not alone. Youngest-ever Ontario MPP, Sam Oosterhoff, beats challenger again in PC nomination There are many others who are a part of the social conservative movement inside the caucus and out. Mr. Brown has a difficult road between now and the election to keep the people like Mr. Oosterhoff on side while expanding his support in the province. Polls indicate he has done just that but Ontario has a history where people park their votes between elections and things change dramatically once the campaign buses start rolling. The approval ratings for Wynne are so low, does it matter what Mr. Brown does between now and the election? Can he win the election by default? You've got the person you don't like and the person you don't know. And, quite frankly, you've got Hamilton's Andrea Horwath saying she could be a factor in the election. Some polls indicate she could move the party to second place with the Liberals falling to third. Who knows? Things are fluid except the one constant that Kathleen Wynne's approval rating keeps going down. That's why some are now saying publicly that maybe she should take a pass on the leadership and leave before the next election.   Why Kathleen Wynne is so unpopular, and what she can do about it A lot of people in the NDP are wondering where is Andrea Horwath in all this. She has been working hard to make sure people understand there are three parties in the legislature. She has come out with some policies. She has been very active in the legislature. She has been smart to not spend all of her time at Queen's Park and has been out to meet people. She's a pretty darn good campaigner. So far the polls indicate people are not ready to move her from third to first.  Wynne also took a hit Tuesday night when former Liberal finance minister Greg Sorbara appeared on TVO's The Agenda. He told host Steve Paikin it's "extremely unlikely" the Liberals will win with Wynne leading them. How much is that going to hurt her and the party? It's not helpful. You have senior people in the party like Mr. Sorbara. He was saying long before people believed him that Dalton McGuinty could be Premier of Ontario and could get re-elected. He has a long history in the party. Many Liberals I have spoken to discount what Sorbara has said. On Tuesday night he was on TVO saying one thing. Will Kathleen Wynne lead, follow or get out of the way? - Robert Fisher By Wednesday morning he was altering his views saying Ms. Wynne could pull out a victory but she should consider stepping down as leader. In politics government usually die of a thousand tiny cuts. One of those was administered by Mr. Sorbara. Is it fatal? I don't know. Does it help? Absolutely not. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Kathleen Wynne's approval rating hits record low Ontario Liberals' hydro rate cut plan did little to spark voter support, new poll suggests Government ads about cutting hydro bills a 'pat on the back': auditor general Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now