Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics·PODCAST The Pollcast: Patrick Brown blows up the Ontario PC leadership race If the whirlwind Ontario PC leadership race wasn't chaotic enough, Patrick Brown's bid to regain the job he gave up was approved on Wednesday. Pollcast host Éric Grenier is joined by the CBC's Katie Simpson and Aaron Wherry to try to make some sense of it all. Social Sharing Host Éric Grenier is joined by the CBC's Katie Simpson and Aaron Wherry CBC News · Posted: Feb 22, 2018 3:46 PM ET | Last Updated: February 22, 2018 Patrick Brown speaks to media following a meeting at the Conservative Party headquarters in Toronto on Friday, February 16, 2018. (Christopher Katsarov/Canadian Press) comments The CBC Pollcast explores the world of electoral politics, political polls and the trends they reveal. The race to replace Patrick Brown as leader of the Ontario Progressive Conservatives gained a surprising new candidate this week: Patrick Brown. His candidacy complicates what was already a challenging leadership campaign for the four other contestants. Now they have to do more than make their pitches for the job of taking on Premier Kathleen Wynne in Ontario's June election — they also have to explain why Brown should be kept away from the job he gave up four weeks ago. Patrick Brown cleared to run for Ontario PC leadership Podcasts: Subscribe to the CBC Pollcast? Along with Brown, the candidates vying for the PC leadership are Tanya Granic Allen, Christine Elliott, Doug Ford and Caroline Mulroney — a colourful group even before Brown showed up. Granic Allen is running a campaign primarily based on opposition to the Liberal government's sex education legislation. Elliott is trying to win the leadership of a party that rejected her on two occasions already. Mulroney is the daughter of a prime minister who has little political experience on her resume, while Ford is the brother of the late Rob Ford — whose term as mayor of Toronto might be the only recent Canadian political drama to match the turmoil of the Ontario PC leadership race. Polls suggest PC party members are not only choosing their next party leader, but the favourite to be the next premier of the province as well. That makes it an important choice. To discuss the implications of Brown's candidacy and what it means for the PC leadership race, Pollcast host Éric Grenier is joined by the CBC's Katie Simpson and Aaron Wherry. Listen to the full discussion above — or subscribe to the CBC Pollcast here and listen to past episodes.? Follow Éric Grenier, Katie Simpson and Aaron Wherry on Twitter. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Eric Grenier's Pollcast PODCAST The Pollcast: Breaking down the Ontario PC leadership race Patrick Brown cleared to run for Ontario PC leadership Patrick Brown accused of 'dirty and crooked politics' as Ontario MPP calls for investigation PODCAST The Pollcast: Ontario PCs need a leader and quickly PODCAST The Pollcast: Are millennials now Canada's most important voters? Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now