Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Thunder Bay Thunder Bay hospital increasing access to priority surgery The Thunder Bay Health Sciences Centre is increasing access to some surgeries, the doctor heading up the facility's COVID-19 response said. Social Sharing Surgeries have been limited due to COVID-19 pandemic CBC News · Posted: Apr 22, 2020 6:30 AM ET | Last Updated: April 22, 2020 The Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre will be increasing access to surgery for priority patients. (Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre) The Thunder Bay Health Sciences Centre is increasing access to some surgical procedures for priority patients, the doctor heading up the facility's COVID-19 response said. The hospital has been limiting services as part of its pandemic response. However, Dr. Stewart Kennedy said the hospital's surgical group is working to increase surgical capacity for high-priority patients, such as those in need of procedures related to cancer or infections. "This week, our surgical group is reviewing the list of patients that are higher-priority, and are going to open up some surgical capacity to move this forward," he said. "We can't allow our patients in the community to not be treated in a priority fashion because of COVID-19." Elective surgeries, and other non-essential services provided by the hospital, have been cancelled until further notice. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now