Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Thunder Bay Thunder Bay District Health Unit confirms 4 new COVID-19 cases, 2 requiring hospital care Four new cases of COVID-19 were confirmed Wednesday by the Thunder Bay District Health Unit, and two of those people required hospitalization. Social Sharing 4 new cases all involve girls or women under 50, 3 from First Nations in the district Cathy Alex · CBC News · Posted: Apr 22, 2020 3:55 PM ET | Last Updated: April 22, 2020 The Thunder Bay District Health Unit confirmed four new cases of COVID-19 in the region, bringing the total to 55. (Gord Ellis/CBC) Four new cases of COVID-19 were confirmed Wednesday by the Thunder Bay District Health Unit, and two of those people required hospitalization.  All four cases involve girls or women under 50, with three coming from First Nation communities in the region, the TBDHU outlined in a written release. Northwestern Health Unit confirms 2nd case of COVID-19 in Kenora, Ont. Thunder Bay hospital increasing access to priority surgery Case #52 is a woman in her 40s, from a First Nation, who was exposed through a close contact and is now in hospital. Cases #53 and #54 are females under 20, from a First Nation, who were exposed through a close contact and are now self-isolating. Case #55 is a woman in her 30s, from the Thunder Bay area, who is now in hospital. The TBDHU stated her means of exposure is still pending. The TBDHU also issued a reminder that all people who have travelled outside of Canada are directed to self-isolate for 14 days after their return to the county. More COVID-19 testing now available in Thunder Bay, including weekend drive-thru tests on April 25, 26 17 cases of COVID-19, including 1 in Sudbury, linked to outbreak at Lac des Iles mine in northwestern Ontario If you think you may have COVID-19 symptoms or have been in close contact with someone who has it, first self-isolate and then use Ontario's Self-Assessment Tool to see if you need to seek further care. There is now an Online Portal to access COVID-19 test results directly from the provincial laboratory system. This portal was launched April 12 by the Ontario government and offers fast and secure access to test results on your computer and mobile device, the TBDHU stated. For additional information about COVID-19 and the TBDHU area, please see the TBDHU website, social media channels or contact the TBDHU at (807) 625-5900 or 1-888-294-6630 . Additional updates will also be provided as needed. More information can also be found by visiting this Ontario government coronavirus website. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories 17 cases of COVID-19, including 1 in Sudbury, linked to outbreak at Lac des Iles mine in northwestern Ontario Thunder Bay hospital increasing access to priority surgery Northwestern Health Unit confirms 2nd case of COVID-19 in Kenora, Ont. More COVID-19 testing now available in Thunder Bay, including weekend drive-thru tests on April 25, 26 External Links Ontario's Self-Assessment Tool for COVID-19 Online portal to access COVID-19 test results Thunder Bay District Health Unit website Ontario government coronavirus website Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now