Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Tillerson, White House offer different opinions on North Korea talks Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has softened the U.S. stance on possible talks with North Korea, calling it "unrealistic" to expect the nuclear-armed country to come to the table ready to give up a weapons of mass destruction program that it invested so much in developing. Social Sharing Tillerson's own department's spokesperson appeared to walk back his comments later in day The Associated Press · Posted: Dec 13, 2017 6:41 AM ET | Last Updated: December 14, 2017 'We are ready to talk any time North Korea would like to talk,' U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Tuesday at the 2017 Atlantic Council-Korea Foundation Forum in Washington. (Susan Walsh/Associated Press) Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has softened the U.S. stance on possible talks with North Korea, calling it "unrealistic" to expect the nuclear-armed country to come to the table ready to give up a weapons of mass destruction program that it invested so much in developing. Tillerson's remarks Tuesday come two weeks after North Korea conducted a test with a missile that could potentially carry a nuclear warhead to the U.S. Eastern Seaboard — a milestone in its decades-long drive to pose an atomic threat to its American adversary that Trump has vowed to prevent, using military force if necessary. "We are ready to talk any time North Korea would like to talk. And we are ready to have the first meeting without preconditions," Tillerson said at the Atlantic Council-Korea Foundation Forum. 'Just a matter of time': North Korea's missile capabilities may be closer than once thought UN envoy says 'door ajar' to negotiated North Korea solution He said the North would need to hold off on its weapons testing. This year, the North has conducted more than 20 ballistic missile launches and one nuclear test explosion, its most powerful yet. "Let's just meet and we can talk about the weather if you want to. We can talk about whether it's a square table or a round table if that's what you are excited about," Tillerson said. "But can we at least sit down and see each other face to face and then we can begin to lay out a map, a road map, of what we might be willing to work towards." Tillerson said President Donald Trump endorses this position. But the White House later issued an ambiguous statement that left unclear whether Trump — who has said Tillerson was wasting his time pursuing dialogue with North Korea — had given his approval for the speech. "The president's views on North Korea have not changed," the White House said. "North Korea is acting in an unsafe way ... North Korea's actions are not good for anyone and certainly not good for North Korea." Our policy on <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/DPRK?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#DPRK</a> has not changed. Diplomacy is our top priority through our maximum pressure campaign. We remain open to dialogue when North Korea is willing to conduct a serious &amp; credible dialogue on the peaceful denuclearization, but that time is not now.&mdash;@statedeptspox State Department spokesperson Heather Nauert later Wednesday also appeared to walk back part of Tillerson's proposal, saying there would have to be a suspension of North Korean nuclear and missile tests for an undefined length of time before any talks could take place. "And we certainly haven't seen that right now," she told reporters, insisting Tillerson had not unveiled a new policy and was "on the same page" as the White House. 'Very realistic' approach Although Tillerson said the goal of U.S. policy remained denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, he said it was "not realistic to say we're only going to talk if you come to the table ready to give up your program. They've too much invested in it. The president is very realistic about that as well." Baik Tae-hyun, spokesperson of Seoul's Unification Ministry, said of Tillerson's comments that Seoul wishes for talks to "happen soon" if they contribute to the goal of finding a peaceful solution for the North Korean nuclear problem. He said Washington and Seoul both maintain a firm stance that North Korea's nuclear weapons cannot be tolerated and should be completely discarded in a peaceful way. U.S., South Korea launch air drills amid North Korean warnings of nuclear war Drugs, counterfeiting: How North Korea survives on proceeds of crime White House spokesperson Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement later Tuesday that: "The president's views on North Korea have not changed." "North Korea is acting in an unsafe way not only toward Japan, China, and South Korea, but the entire world. North Korea's actions are not good for anyone and certainly not good for North Korea," she said. U.S. President Donald Trump's 'views on North Korea have not changed,' White House spokesperson Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement. (Evan Vucci/Associated Press) In public, Trump has been less sanguine about the possibilities of diplomacy with Kim Jong-un's authoritarian government, which faces growing international isolation and sanctions as it pursues nuclear weapons in defiance of multiple UN Security Council resolutions. In October, Trump appeared to undercut Tillerson when he said he was "wasting his time" trying to negotiate with North Korea, just as Tillerson said the U.S. had back-channel communications with the North. Trump, who has traded insults with Kim, kept up his tough talk on Tuesday. As he signed a $700-billion US defence authorization bill that includes additional spending on missile defence, he referred to North Korea as a "vile dictatorship." "We're working very diligently on that — building up forces. We'll see how it all turns out. It's a very bad situation — a situation that should have been handled long ago by other administrations," Trump said. Discussions with Beijing Tillerson did not indicate that North Korea had signalled a new readiness to talk, but said that "they clearly understand that if we're going to talk, we've got to have a period of quiet" in weapons tests. Tillerson stressed the U.S. would not accept a nuclear-armed North Korea, as it flouts international norms and might spread weapons technology to non-state groups in ways that other nuclear powers have not. In a rare admission of discussion of a highly sensitive topic, Tillerson said Washington has discussed with Beijing how North Korea's nuclear weapons might be secured in case of instability there. "The most important thing to us would be securing those nuclear weapons that they have already developed and ensuring that nothing falls into the hands of people who we would not want to have it. We've had conversations with the Chinese about how that might be done," Tillerson said. Tillerson, left, is shown meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Sept. 30. The Trump administration has held a series of high-level dialogues with Beijing this year. (Lintao Zhang/Pool/Reuters) It appeared to be the first public recognition from an administration official that the U.S. has discussed North Korean contingencies with China, which fought with the North against the U.S. in the 1950-53 Korean War. The Trump administration has held a series of high-level dialogues with Beijing this year, and U.S. and Chinese generals held rare talks in late November about how the two militaries might communicate in a crisis although U.S. officials said the dialogue wasn't centred on North Korea. Tillerson said the U.S. has assured China that in the event that American troops had to cross north of the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas, it would retreat back south once stability returned. "That is our commitment we made to them. Our only objective is to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula, and that is all," Tillerson said. U.S. plans extra sanctions against North Korea after its latest nuclear missile claim In rare North Korea visit, UN presses need to 'reduce the risks of conflict' Daryl Kimball, executive director of the Arms Control Association, said Tillerson's proposal for direct talks with North Korea without preconditions was overdue and a welcome shift in position, but both sides needed to demonstrate restraint. "For North Korea that means a halt to all nuclear and ballistic missile tests, and for the United States, refraining from military manoeuvres and overflights that appear to be practice runs for an attack on the North," Kimball said. "If such restraint is not forthcoming, we can expect a further escalation of tensions and a growing risk of a catastrophic war." Last week, the United States flew a B-1B supersonic bomber over South Korea as part of a massive combined aerial exercise involving more than 200 warplanes. North Korea says such drills are preparations for invasion. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories U.S. plans extra sanctions against North Korea after its latest nuclear missile claim Drugs, counterfeiting: How North Korea survives on proceeds of crime In rare North Korea visit, UN presses need to 'reduce the risks of conflict' UN envoy says 'door ajar' to negotiated North Korea solution 'Just a matter of time': North Korea's missile capabilities may be closer than once thought Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now