Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Health Timeline of COVID-19 cases across Canada Here's a timeline of all confirmed coronavirus cases across the country. Social Sharing Public health officials say most confirmed cases of coronavirus trace back to travel or close contacts The Canadian Press · Posted: Mar 02, 2020 12:22 PM ET | Last Updated: March 14, 2020 This photo was taken by Kara Schiestel of Saskatchewan. She is one of the 237 Canadian passengers aboard the coronavirus-hit Grand Princess who were medically assessed in California before being flown to an Ontario army base on Tuesday to begin 14 days of quarantine. (Kara Schiestel) Here is a timeline of COVID-19 cases in this country.    Jan. 25: A man in his 50s who arrived in Toronto from Wuhan, China, the epicentre of the outbreak, becomes the first "presumptive" case of the new coronavirus in Canada. The man called 911 as soon as he got sick with relatively minor symptoms and was placed in isolation in Toronto's Sunnybrook Hospital.    Jan. 26: The wife of the Toronto man who was Canada's first "presumptive" case of the new coronavirus becomes the second presumptive case. The woman is kept in home isolation.    Jan. 27: The National Microbiology Lab in Winnipeg confirms that a man in quarantine in Sunnybrook Hospital is Canada's first documented case of the new coronavirus.    Jan 28: Health authorities confirm Canada's second case of the novel coronavirus. The woman had recently travelled to Wuhan with her husband, who was the first case confirmed in Canada.    Jan 28: Health officials in British Columbia say a man in his 40s is presumed to have the new coronavirus and is doing well as he recovers at his Vancouver home. B.C.'s health officer, Dr. Bonnie Henry, says the man often works in China and voluntarily isolated himself upon returning to Canada.    Jan. 28: The presumed case of the new strain of coronavirus in B.C. is confirmed by the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg.    Jan. 31: Toronto man hospitalized with the novel coronavirus is well enough to go home. Sunnybrook Hospital says he'll continue to recover at home, where his wife is also in self-isolation.    Jan. 31: Ontario's third case of the new coronavirus is confirmed. The patient, a woman in her 20s, had travelled to the affected area in China. The London university student initially tested negative for the virus, but a subsequent test at the national lab in Winnipeg was positive. Health officials say her symptoms are minor. Canada's 1st 'presumptive' case of coronavirus found in Toronto 8 more cases of COVID-19 identified in B.C., including 1 of unknown origin    Feb. 4: Health officials announce another presumptive confirmed case in B.C. Henry says the woman had family visiting from China's Hubei province and she is in isolation at her home.    Feb. 5: British Columbia's second case of coronavirus is confirmed by the National Microbiology Lab.    Feb. 6: Henry announces two new cases of COVID-19 in B.C., noting both people were in the same household as the woman diagnosed with the province's second case. Three of the four patients in Alberta are connected to the same Grand Princess cruise ship that docked Monday in Oakland, Calif. (Kate Munsch/Reuters)    Feb. 12: Ontario health officials say the woman from London, Ont., no longer has the novel coronavirus in her system. It marks the first time a case of the illness has been resolved in Canada.    Feb. 14: Officials in B.C. announce the province's fifth case of COVID-19. The woman in her 30s who lives in B.C.'s Interior recently returned from Hubei province.    Feb. 19: Henry announces that the person diagnosed with B.C.'s first case of the new coronavirus has recovered. It's the first time this has happened in the province.    Feb. 20: A woman who recently returned from Iran is diagnosed with British Columbia's sixth case of COVID-19. She's the first person in the country diagnosed with the illness who did not recently visit China. Meanwhile, in Ontario, the man who had Canada's first case of the virus is cleared after testing negative for the illness twice in 24 hours.    Feb. 21: The last known case of coronavirus in Ontario is resolved. Canada's first COVID-19 death is not cause for panic — but shows need to protect most vulnerable    Feb. 23: Officials in Toronto announce Ontario has a new case of coronavirus — the fourth to be diagnosed in the province. The woman arrived in Toronto from China several days earlier.    Feb. 24: Henry announces a seventh person in B.C. has been diagnosed with the new coronavirus. The man in his 40s was in close contact with the woman who has the province's sixth case of the illness.    Feb. 26: Ontario officials announce a fifth diagnosis in the province: a woman in her 60s who recently travelled to Iran.    Feb. 27: Quebec public health officials report the province's first presumptive case, a woman from the Montreal region who recently returned from Iran. Ontario officials also confirm a sixth case of COVID-19 in the province. They say the man in his 60s is the husband of Ontario's fifth patient with the virus.    Feb. 28: Ontario reports a seventh confirmed case — a man in his 50s who had travelled to Iran. The man arrived in Toronto on Tuesday, Feb. 25 and went to the emergency department of Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre the next day. It also reports its eighth case: a man in his 80s with a travel history to Egypt. Officials said he arrived in the city on Feb. 20 and went to the Scarborough Health Network's General Hospital's emergency department on Thursday.    Feb. 29 Health officials in British Columbia say a woman in her 60s who travelled from Iran is the eighth case of COVID-19 in the province. Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry says the woman has a relatively mild case and she is in self-isolation at home. Health officials in Ontario report another three cases — two women who had recently made separate trips to Iran, and the 69-year-old husband of one of those women, who had no recent travel history.    March 1: Ontario officials diagnose four new cases — three in York Region and one in Toronto. All four patients had recently travelled abroad. One had travelled to Egypt with a man who was later diagnosed with the virus, while the rest had recently been in Iran. Education is key to reducing COVID-19 transmission, says WHO expert Canada1 year ago 0:41Dr. Bruce Aylward says education about COVID-19 and measures to manage its spread provide a 'window to reduce disease and save lives.' 0:41    March 2: Ontario health officials are reporting three new cases. One of the patients is a man in his 60s who returned from a flight in Iran, and the other two are women in their 60s and 70s who returned from Egypt.     March 3: Four more cases have been identified in British Columbia. These new cases involve three people who recently travelled to Iran — a man in his 60s, a man in his 50s, and an adult woman living in the Vancouver Coastal Health region. The fourth patient is a woman in her 30s who contracted the virus in the household of the eighth patient B.C. patient, a woman in her 60s who is visiting the Vancouver Coastal Health region from Iran. Ontario announces two more cases both linking back to travels from Egypt and Iran.     March 4: The provincial health officer for B.C. says a woman in her 80s is in critical condition after being diagnosed with a severe case of COVID-19. Dr. Bonnie Henry said the woman recently returned from a trip to India and Hong Kong, and officials are investigating where she might have been exposed to the coronavirus.  Electron microscope image of the virus that causes COVID-19. (NIAID-RML/The Associated Press)    March 5: Ontario health officials are confirming 3 more cases across the province. They also revealed another person has recovered from the virus. One of the affected individual is a man in his 60s residing in Mississauga. He returned to Canada from a trip on the Grand Princess Cruise Ship out of San Francisco on February 28 and was seen and assessed at Trillium Health Partners-Mississauga Hospital. Health officials also reported another case — a woman in her 50s who returned to Kitchener, Ont., from Italy, and a man who returned to Toronto from Iran. B.C.'s Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry is reporting eight more cases of COVID-19, including B.C.'s first apparent case of the coronavirus spread in the community. Quebec health officials confirm the second case of COVID-19 in Montreal. Alberta also reports its first presumptive case of the virus.     March 6: The third case of the coronavirus has been confirmed in Quebec by an individual who recently travelled to France. In Ontario, the Ministry of Health reports four more positive cases.  B.C.'s Provincial Health Officer, Dr. Bonnie Henry, announces the province's first apparent case of COVID-19 spread in the community. (Michael McArthur/CBC) The chief medical officer of health in Alberta has announced a second presumptive case of COVID-19 in the Edmonton health zone.    March 7: Provincial health officials of B.C. are reporting six more cases of people being tested positive for COVID-19. This includes two residents at the Lynn Valley Care Centre — a long-term care facility in North Vancouver. Dr. Bonnie Henry says the facility is now considered the site of an outbreak.    March 8: Alberta is reporting it's fourth presumptive case in the province, one of which has been confirmed. Dr. Deena Hinshaw, the province's chief medical officer of health, says "all the cases of COVID-19 to date are travel-related and recovering in isolation at home with support from public health officials." A new presumptive case of COVID-19 is announced in Quebec. The new case was detected in the  Montérégie region, southeast of Montreal. There are currently two confirmed cases of the coronavirus in Quebec, and the other two cases are requiring further testing by the National Microbiology Lab in Winnipeg before they can be confirmed.  Ontario health officials reported four new cases on Sunday of the novel coronavirus. Officials say the new cases confirmed include two women in their 40s and 60s and a man in his 60s. The ministry is reporting all new cases involve international travelling.     March 9: Three new cases of COVID-19 announced by Ontario health officials, bringing the total in the province to 34. Four of the patients have recovered from the virus — based on two consecutive negative tests performed 24 hours apart at the Public Health Ontario Laboratory. A total of 237 Canadians on board the Grand Princess cruise ship with 21 confirmed cases will be flown back to Canada and put under quarantine for two-weeks at CFB Trenton, Ont.  Canadian cruise ship passengers to be repatriated, quarantined The National1 year ago 1:57Canadians on board a cruise ship with confirmed cases of coronavirus will be flown back to Canada and quarantined at CFB Trenton. 1:57 Alberta has three new presumptive cases, bringing the total in the province to seven. The three patients include a man in his 30s, and two women, one in her 70s and in her 50s.  The Ministry of Health office of British Columbia have announced five new cases bringing B.C.'s confirmed cases to a total of 32. As well, a male resident in British Columbia died late Sunday, due to COVID-19. This is the first coronavirus-related death in Canada. According to Dr. Bonnie Henry, the 80-year-old man had pre-existing health problems prior to contracting the coronavirus.  A joint statement released by the Ministry of Health of British Columbia said "four of B.C.'s 32 individuals who tested positive have fully recovered."    March 10: Two new cases of the coronavirus have been announced in Ontario. One is a man in his 40s from Toronto; the other is a man in his 50s from Sudbury — the first COVID-19 case in the area, health officials said.  Seven new cases have been reported in Alberta. Four are from the Calgary zone and three are from the Edmonton zone. Alberta's chief medical officer of health, Dr. Deena Hinshaw, said all 14 of the confirmed cases have been travel-related.  British Columbia is also confirming seven more cases of the coronavirus. This includes two health-care workers at a long-term care home in North Vancouver. Dr. Bonnie Henry said another two cases appear to have been contracted through community transmission — men in their 90s and 40s, both residents of the Fraser Health region. Another three cases are travel-related.    March 11: The provincial government of Quebec confirmed seven cases of COVID-19, with more than 100 others under investigation.  In Ontario, a radiation oncologist from Hamilton, Ont. tested positive for COVID-19. The doctor is in her 30s, and was in contact with both cancer patients and staff members after returning from a personal trip to Hawaii. As well, a man from Ottawa in his 40s is confirmed. He contracted the virus while travelling in Austria. Public Health Agency of Canada has confirmed one of the quarantined Canadian passengers from the Grand Princess cruise ship with COVID-19. According to PHAC, the patient passed initial screening in California but reported a mild fever and cough upon arriving in Trenton, Ont. The agency did not share the gender or age of the individual. The first known case of a child in Canada being infected with COVID-19 occurred in Calgary, said Dr. Deena Hinshaw, Alberta's chief medical officer of health. (John Shypitka/CBC) Alberta has reported five new cases of COVID-19 — all of which are travel-related, said Dr. Deena Hinshaw, the province's chief medical officer. In B.C., seven more people have tested positive for COVID-19. Two of which are related to the Lynn Valley Care Centre in North Vancouver. The other new cases are travel-related.  New Brunswick is reporting its first presumptive case of the coronavirus. The individual is a woman in her 50s to 60s. She travelled from France to New Brunswick.     March 12: A child in Calgary tests positive for COVID-19. This is the first known case of a child in Canada being infected.  The province of Manitoba has its first presumptive case of the coronavirus. During a news conference, Manitoba Health Minister Cameron Friesen said the patient is a woman in her 40s who travelled to the Philippines. 17 new cases are confirmed in Ontario, bringing the province up to 59 cases of COVID-19. Five of which have been resolved. A baby boy from Toronto is among one of the confirmed cases, who was in close contact with another patient and attended the North York General Hospital.  Saskatchewan health officials are recording its first presumptive case of the coronavirus. Provincial chief medical officer Dr. Saqib Shahab reported the patient is in their 60s and had recently traveled to Egypt.  Quebec is confirming four new cases of COVID-19. The province now has 17 confirmed cases. I have some additional news to share this evening. Unfortunately, the results of Sophie’s COVID-19 test are positive. Therefore, she will be in quarantine for the time being. Her symptoms remain mild and she is taking care of herself and following the advice of our doctor.&mdash;@JustinTrudeau Sophie Grégoire Trudeau's test results came back positive for COVID-19. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his wife are both in self-isolation after she began exhibiting mild flu-like symptoms. In the meanwhile, Trudeau will be working from home conducting virtual meetings.    March 13: 19 new cases are reported in Ontario. Six of them are in their 20s. This brings the province up to 79 confirmed cases. British Columbia is reporting three more positive cases of the coronavirus. The patients are three administrative staff members at Lions Gate Hospital in North Vancouver. Saskatchewan is confirming its second presumptive case of COVID-19. The patient is a male in his 60s who recently visited Oregon state in America. A second passenger from the Grand Princess cruise ship is under quarantine in Trenton, Ont. With files from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Canada's first COVID-19 death is not cause for panic — but shows need to protect most vulnerable Analysis Why Canada's 1st suspected coronavirus case is 'a world of difference' from SARS Canada's 1st 'presumptive' case of coronavirus found in Toronto Video 1st person with coronavirus disease in B.C. has fully recovered, provincial health officer says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now