Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Toronto shutting down major city services, Mayor Tory self-isolating as COVID-19 cases climb Toronto is shutting down major city services effective 12:01 a.m. on Saturday amid a growing number of COVID-19 cases, officials announced Friday. Social Sharing Shutdown does not include TTC, but all public libraries and city-run daycare centres will close from Saturday Desmond Brown · CBC News · Posted: Mar 13, 2020 5:17 PM ET | Last Updated: March 14, 2020 City Manager Chris Murray announced Friday evening that major city services will be shut down effective 12:01 a.m. on Saturday amid a growing number of COVID-19 cases. (CBC) comments Toronto is shutting down major city services effective 12:01 a.m. on Saturday amid a growing number of COVID-19 cases, officials announced Friday. Mayor John Tory — who returned to Toronto from a trade mission in Britain on Wednesday — has also announced that he is now in self-isolation. City Manager Chris Murray said the shutdown of services — recommended by Toronto's medical officer of health Dr. Eileen de Villa — is necessary to help slow the rate of COVID-19 infection in Toronto and protect vulnerable populations, including seniors, people with compromised immune systems and individuals experiencing homelessness.  The shutdown does not include the TTC, but all public libraries and city-run daycare centres will be closed as of Saturday. Affected programmes and facilities also include: City-operated March break camps. Community and recreation centres. Greenhouses and conservatories. Pools. Fitness centres. Ski hills. City-operated galleries and museums. Murray said council and committee meetings for the current meeting cycle are also suspended. The tentative date for services to resume is April 5, and "reimbursements for cancellations will be processed as soon as possible," Murray said. The following emergency and critical services will continue unaffected: Emergency response by Toronto police, Fire Services, and Paramedic Services. Toronto Water operations, including drinking water, wastewater collection and treatment, and stormwater management. Garbage, recycling and organics collection. Shelters, respites, and drop-in centres. Long-term care homes continue to operate with strict visitor restrictions in place. Road, sidewalk, and bikeway operations and maintenance, including snow removal. City Hall, Metro Hall, and civic centres remain open. GO Transit reduces services, universities close: What you need to know about COVID-19 in Ontario  COVID-19 pandemic forces Ontario Superior Court to suspend upcoming jury trials The city manager also addressed the ongoing negotiations between the city and CUPE Local 79, the union representing its inside workers. "Both sides are at the table. I've talked to our leadership, I understand that things seem to be going very well," Murray said. "Our goal, clearly, and I believe it to be the union's goal as well, is to try and resolve this and get a deal so that this is one matter that we don't have to concern ourselves too much about." Meanwhile, Dr. de Villa is also strongly encouraging all residents and visitors to self-isolate for 14 days upon arriving in Toronto from any country, including the United States. Toronto's medical officer of health Dr. Eileen de Villa says her recommendations were 'based on the available science and evidence and in consideration of her local circumstance.' (CBC) Toronto's medical officer of health said her recommendations were made with the protection of Toronto residents, workers and visitors in mind.   "I am making these recommendations based on the available science and evidence and in consideration of our local circumstances," de Villa said. "We know that for COVID-19, children have little or no signs or symptoms. We have seen an escalation in the number of travel-related cases of COVID-19 here in our city. We need to reduce the risk of undetected spread of COVID-19 in people's households." Tory goes into self-isolation for the next 12 days Mayor Tory said the measures announced Friday are focused on doing everything to protect the city, and that includes heeding the medical advice of de Villa. "Since the first case of COVID-19 appeared in Toronto, I have always stressed the importance of following the advice of our medical experts," Tory said in a news release. "Having returned from a business mission in London, England, on Wednesday, this advice would also apply to me. As a result, I will be going into self-isolation for the next 12 days as per Dr. de Villa's advice. Right now, I have no symptoms whatsoever and feel great." Tory said he will be doing his job and continuing to represent Toronto residents as the city focuses on responding to the COVID-19 pandemic. My full video statement before I began self-isolation based on Toronto's Medical Officer of Health Dr. <a href="https://twitter.com/epdevilla?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@epdevilla</a>'s updated recommendations to combat COVID-19. <a href="https://t.co/A2mbsPAdjL">https://t.co/A2mbsPAdjL</a>&mdash;@JohnTory Friday's announcement comes as Ontario contends with 19 new COVID-19 cases, the province's single biggest daily increase since the outbreak began, bringing the provincial total to 79. It also comes one day after Education Minister Stephen Lecce announced that all publicly funded schools will remain closed for an extra two weeks after March break. Muslim groups urge mosques to suspend Friday prayer services amid coronavirus fears CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now