Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Toronto is prepared to handle a coronavirus outbreak, health officials say Health officials say there are no conformed cases of the coronavirus in Canada, but while overall risk remains low, it's just a matter of time before the virus spreads here. Social Sharing No confirmed cases of the virus in Canada, but Ontario's top doctor says it's a matter of time CBC News · Posted: Jan 24, 2020 11:56 AM ET | Last Updated: January 24, 2020 "Ontario is ready, our systems are ready,” said Dr. David Williams, Ontario’s Chief Medical Officer of Health, during a press conference in Toronto to update the public on the city's measures to combat the new coronavirus if it spreads to Toronto. (Michael Wilson/CBC) comments Ontario's chief medical officer of health says the city and the province are better prepared to deal with the new coronavirus that has infected hundreds of people in Asia because of experience with the SARS outbreak. "Through SARS and through all the work later, we have set in place standard policies and procedures," said Dr. David Williams during an update on Toronto's preparedness Friday morning. "We're light years ahead of where we were in 2003." The SARS outbreak in 2003 killed 44 people in the GTA and infected hundreds more. Williams said while there are no confirmed cases of the coronavirus in Canada, he believes it's just "a matter of where and when." CEO of Public Health Ontario, Dr. Peter Donnelly, said the province has testing that lets medical professionals know within 24 hours whether an illness is this new coronavirus type. Donnelly says an unspecified number of patients have already been tested. All of them turned out to have the flu, previously-known versions of coronavirus or other illnesses. Toronto resident travelling to China for Lunar New Year unfazed as coronavirus spreads CBC ExplainsDo I have COVID-19, the flu or a cold? He adds if there is a confirmed case, Toronto will not go into lockdown like the Chinese city of Wuhan, where the virus originated. "The city will still be functioning, the province will still be functioning normally ... it's why Public Health Ontario exists." Risk remains low Toronto's chief public health officer, Dr. Eileen de Villa, also reassured the public that overall risk remains low in Canada. But with increased travel expected during Lunar New Year festivities this weekend, she says the city is keeping a close eye on the situation. Dr. Eileen de Villa, Toronto's medical officer of health, urges Canadians to seek out 'credible sources of information' about the new coronavirus, and not rely on what they see on social media and by word of mouth. (Michael Wilson/CBC) "We do know that Toronto's Pearson Airport is an international travel hub. I think it's important that you know we are actively monitoring the situation with our federal and provincial health partners," she said. De Villa promised quick updates if the virus reaches the city. Twenty-six people have died from the virus so far, with the number of cases now at more than 800. China announced it is building a 1,000-bed hospital in Wuhan dedicated to patients who are infected. Authorities are aiming to have the facility finished by Wednesday.  CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Toronto resident travelling to China for Lunar New Year unfazed as coronavirus spreads CBC Explains Do I have COVID-19, the flu or a cold? Follow the spread of the new coronavirus with this interactive map Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now