Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Trudeau says threatened U.S. auto tariffs based on flimsy logic A move by the United States to explore imposing tariffs on auto imports is based on flimsy logic and is clearly linked to talks to modernize the NAFTA trade pact, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Thursday. Social Sharing Trump has threatened tariffs of up to 25 per cent on all cars imported into U.S. Thomson Reuters · Posted: May 24, 2018 1:54 PM ET | Last Updated: May 25, 2018 Prime Minister Justin Trudeau speaks during an interview with Reuters in La Malbaie, Quebec, Canada, May 24, 2018. (Chris Wattie/Reuters) comments A move by the United States to explore tariffs on auto imports is based on flimsy logic and is part of the pressure from Washington to renegotiate the NAFTA trade pact, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Wednesday. In an interview with Reuters, Trudeau said that while U.S. President Donald Trump had raised the idea of punitive measures, there was no guarantee they will happen. Trudeau also predicted talk of tariffs would likely disappear if slow-moving negotiations to update the North American Free Trade Agreement - currently stuck on autos issues - are successful. The Trump administration said on Wednesday it had launched a national security investigation into car and truck imports that could lead to new tariffs similar to those imposed on imported steel and aluminum recently. Canada rejects any idea it could be a threat to the United States. "I am — even more than I was with steel and aluminum —  trying to figure out where a possible national security connection is," Trudeau said at the luxurious riverside hotel that will be the site of a Group of Seven summit in June. "Taking that a step further into autos seems to me to be on even flimsier logical grounds," Trudeau said. Canada still wants to work with China despite blocked Aecon takeover: Bains Trump threatens tariffs of up to 25% on all cars imported into U.S. Trump blasts 'spoiled' Canada and Mexico over NAFTA talks "But we know that this is very much linked to ongoing negotiations around moving forward on NAFTA." Imposing tariffs could cause chaos for a Canadian auto industry that is heavily integrated into the North American economy. Canada is home to major plants operated by General Motors, Ford, Fiat Chrysler, Honda and Toyota. In Ottawa, Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland told reporters the idea that Canadian-made autos posed a security threat was "frankly absurd and that is a point we are making very clearly to our U.S. partners and allies." Trudeau reacts to Trump's investigation of the auto industry [Reuters] Politics3 years ago 1:04In this Reuters interview clip Prime Minister Justin Trudeau reacts to U.S. President Donald Trump's decision to investigate whether foreign cars have hurt the U.S. auto industry and/or undermined American national security. 1:04 Talk of tariffs and potential trade wars will be on the agenda when Trump comes to La Malbaie in Quebec for the G7 summit on June 8-9. Prominent G7 members such as Germany and France are also unhappy about what they see as Trump's protectionist rhetoric. Trudeau says Canada needs to diversify its trade flows away from the United States, which takes 75 percent of all Canadian goods exports, and has identified China as a prime target. Talks between NAFTA partners the United States, Canada and Mexico have been stalled over a series of U.S. demands to rework the 24-year-old accord, in particular proposals to impose tougher regional content requirements on the auto industry in a bid to create more jobs in the United States. Trudeau defends killing Aecon deal Yet despite his criticism of the United States for arguing that auto imports might be a national security issue, Trudeau defended Canada's decision to block a proposed $1.51 billion takeover of construction company Aecon by a Chinese state builder, also on national security grounds. Trudeau discusses approving the Trans Mountain pipeline [Reuters] Politics3 years ago 0:47Prime Minister Justin Trudeau discusses why and how the Trans Mountain pipeline should get built despite ongoing opposition to the project. 0:47 "Our intelligence and security agencies came back with a very clear recommendation that they didn't feel the transaction should proceed for national security reasons," Trudeau said, declining to elaborate on the reasoning. Trudeau, who visited Beijing last December and raised the prospect of exploratory talks on a free trade deal, said Canada did not "want trade with China any which way at any cost". Court throws out Trans Mountain pipeline challenge from City of Vancouver and Squamish Nation Premier Notley spars with federal NDP leader Jagmeet Singh over Trans Mountain Trudeau has said his government had concerns about the Aecon deal's implications for intellectual property protections. Trudeau reiterated his government's commitment to ensure a hotly contested Kinder Morgan Canada pipeline expansion project would be built, but said little about how that could be achieved if the firm walked away as it is threatening to do unless Ottawa deals with opposition to the plan. "We are going to make sure the pipeline gets built and we are going to do it responsibly and in a way that upholds the national interest and we're working very hard to do just that and when we have more to say, we will say more," he said. Trudeau tries to reassure Canadians over irregular immigration [Reuters] Politics3 years ago 1:24In this Reuters clip Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says that despite irregular border crossers, the Canadian immigration system is working and Canadians can feel safe. 1:24 The prime minister also defended his government's efforts to cope with a swell of irregular arrivals by asylum seekers at the U.S.- Canada border, saying those who are not genuine refugees will be sent back. More than 27,000 asylum seekers have walked across the frontier since Trump took office and some say they left the United States because of his policies and rhetoric toward immigrants. "There is a very high likelihood that if they are not actually fleeing the kinds of things that make you a refugee — which is war, persecution, terror, violence ... then they are going to be sent back home," Trudeau said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Trump threatens tariffs of up to 25% on all cars imported into U.S. Federal government blocks sale of construction giant Aecon to Chinese interests Trump blasts 'spoiled' Canada and Mexico over NAFTA talks Court throws out Trans Mountain pipeline challenge from City of Vancouver and Squamish Nation Premier Notley spars with federal NDP leader Jagmeet Singh over Trans Mountain Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now