Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Trudeau appoints Bob Rae as special envoy to Myanmar Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is appointing Bob Rae as Canada's special envoy to Myanmar, two months into a growing crisis that has left 600,000 Rohingya Muslims displaced. Social Sharing Rae expected to seek permission to visit region where Rohingya live under 'brutal oppression' Nahlah Ayed · CBC News · Posted: Oct 22, 2017 8:28 PM ET | Last Updated: October 23, 2017 Bob Rae, seen speaking to the media in this January 2014 file photo, has been named special envoy to Myanmar. (Nathan Denette/CP) Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is appointing Bob Rae as Canada's special envoy to Myanmar, two months into a growing crisis that has left 600,000 Rohingya Muslim people displaced. The move comes in response to growing public pressure to act in the face of what Canada and the United Nations have labelled ethnic cleansing of a long persecuted minority in Myanmar. As of Sunday, it's estimated 603,000 Rohingya, mostly from the troubled Rakhine state, have fled to shelter in neighbouring Bangladesh. ANALYSIS | A war over words is central to the Rohingya crisis: Nahlah Ayed CBC IN BANGLADESH | 'The scale is just vast': Authorities, aid workers in Bangladesh overwhelmed by Rohingya refugees The former Ontario premier is expected to seek permission to visit Rakhine state, where Rohingya have long lived under what Trudeau called "brutal oppression." Rae will advise the prime minister directly on the matter. According to a source familiar with the new role, Rae can play a sharper, more political role within Myanmar without jeopardizing diplomatic relationships on the ground with a government that is prickly about foreign interference in its affairs. 'Promote accountability for alleged crimes' Myanmar authorities have made it difficult for foreign officials and journalists to visit Rakhine state, recently barring a UN fact-finding mission and only allowing diplomats (including Canada's) a look on a controversial, military-organized visit under their watchful eye earlier this month. Rae is also expected "to promote accountability for alleged crimes perpetrated against vulnerable populations, including the Rohingya Muslim community, other religious and ethnic minorities, and women and girls," according to a written statement on the appointment. Thousands of Canadians have signed a petition calling on the government to strip Myanmar's state counsellor, Aung San Suu Kyi, of honourary Canadian citizenship she was given back in 2007. Rohingya Muslim crisis: How it started and why it's getting worse The National3 years ago 7:44Did the UN ignore warnings of ethnic cleansing of Rohingya in Myanmar? 7:44 Suu Kyi, also a Nobel laureate, has disappointed supporters around the world for failing to side clearly with the Rohingya in their plight. The true power in Myanmar lies with the military, which retains control over key ministries such as home and border affairs. Canada has called on both the civilian and military arms of the government to end the violence and allow humanitarian access to remaining Rohingya populations. 'Constitutions are never closed,' says former Ontario premier Bob Rae 'I'll never stop fighting' says Kitchener Rohingya man after 2-week stint in Bangladesh camps The longstanding tension in Rakhine state escalated on August 25, when Rohingya militants attacked security forces, killing several. The military responded with overwhelming force, and with the support of Buddhist nationalist mobs, have burned down villages and killed an untold number of Rohingya. The UN's human rights office now says the military's actions preceded the August 25 attack, and were intended to drive Rohingya out for good. Though they have lived in Myanmar for generations, Rohingya Muslims are considered foreigners by the authorities and are not entitled to citizenship. They are denied basic rights to freedom of movement and education. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Nahlah Ayed Host of CBC Ideas Nahlah Ayed is the host of the nightly CBC Radio program Ideas. A veteran of foreign reportage, she's spent nearly a decade covering major world events from London, and another decade covering upheaval across the Middle East. Ayed was previously a parliamentary reporter for The Canadian Press. More by this author Video by Nahlah Ayed CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis A war over words is central to the Rohingya crisis: Nahlah Ayed CBC IN BANGLADESH 'The scale is just vast': Authorities, aid workers in Bangladesh overwhelmed by Rohingya refugees 'Constitutions are never closed,' says former Ontario premier Bob Rae 'I'll never stop fighting' says Kitchener Rohingya man after 2-week stint in Bangladesh camps Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now