Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Politics Trudeau defends North Korea meeting after Russian, Chinese criticism Both China and Russia will be integral to securing peace on the Korean peninsula, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau conceded Monday even as he defended the decision to leave the two countries out of this week's international gathering on the perils posed by North Korea. Social Sharing Russia's foreign minister says 'we think this meeting is harmful' Lee Berthiaume · The Canadian Press · Posted: Jan 15, 2018 10:35 PM ET | Last Updated: January 16, 2018 Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is weighing in after both Russia and China criticized a meeting being held in Vancouver to discuss the situation on the Korean peninsula. The meeting, which launches tomorrow, is being hosted by Canada and the U.S. (Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press) Both China and Russia will be integral to securing peace on the Korean peninsula, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau conceded Monday even as he defended the decision to leave the two countries out of this week's international gathering on the perils posed by North Korea. Trudeau made the remarks after Russia became the latest to slam the meeting — taking place Tuesday in Vancouver and co-hosted by Canada and the U.S. — as a threat to peace efforts. China, meanwhile, has already derided as "Cold War thinking" the involvement of only those allies that supported South Korea during the Korean War. "There are always going to be different venues and different groupings happening, and I think a diversity of approaches is better than picking one lane and deciding that this is going to be the way it happens," Trudeau said in an interview with The Canadian Press. Canada, U.S. looking for diplomatic end to North Korea crisis at Vancouver summit AnalysisNorth Korea summit in Vancouver to focus on enforcing sanctions ahead of diplomacy "This is an opportunity to gather together a group of nations that are historically linked through the Korean War that will be another piece, we certainly hope and feel, in the path towards resolving the conflict." But Trudeau also acknowledged that any successful resolution will ultimately need to include China and Russia, both of which he called "important partners" in resolving one of the world's greatest threats to peace. Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland and U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson last month announced plans to co-host the Vancouver meeting in response to growing concerns about North Korea's nuclear and missile programs. 'Outright lie' The meeting has sparked plenty of condemnation, most recently from Russia, whose foreign minister didn't pull his punches Monday in a two-hour news conference. "We openly said that we think this meeting is harmful," Sergey Lavrov said, echoing earlier sentiments from the Chinese government. U.S. officials have suggested that while not invited, Russia and China were generally supportive of the decision to hold a meeting in Vancouver. Lavrov described such assertions as "an outright lie." Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov slammed the upcoming Vancouver meeting during a 2-hour news conference on Monday. (The Associated Press) He also questioned the list of 20 countries invited to attend, all of which supported the UN force that fought against the North Koreans, Chinese and Russians during the Korean War from 1950 to 1953. "When we found out about this meeting, we asked: 'Why do you need all those countries together? Greece, Belgium, Colombia, Luxembourg. What do they have to do with the Korean peninsula today?"' Similar sentiments have been expressed by the Chinese foreign ministry and even a Japanese official, raising questions about the purpose of the meeting — and its likelihood of success in curbing North Korea's nuclear program. U.S. officials have previously said the meeting will look at ways to crack down on the many smuggling and money-laundering schemes that Pyongyang has employed to sidestep sanctions and pay for its nuclear program. Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland and U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson announced plans for the meeting last month, in response to growing concerns about North Korea's nuclear and missile programs. (Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press) Sanction questions Sanctions continue to be a critical point of leverage for the international community over North Korea, said Eric Walsh, Canada's ambassador to South Korea. The challenge remains the sheer number of sanctions and the resulting patchwork of implementation, Walsh said Monday during an event at the University of British Columbia. "One of the things we want to do is look at how we can improve enforcement, how we can identify where sanctions are being evaded and maybe give some assistance to countries," he said. U.S. officials have said the discussions will include whether to start intercepting North Korean shipping, which is certain to spark anger and threats from Pyongyang and could involve Canadian warships. AnalysisAs rival Koreas thaw relations before the Winter Olympics, U.S. could get frozen out Underlining the military backdrop, Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan and U.S. Defence Secretary James Mattis were scheduled to attend a dinner with Freeland and Tillerson on Monday night in advance of Tuesday's gathering. Yet Walsh said the meeting will include a significant focus on potential diplomatic avenues given by bringing together various countries that agree North Korea is a big challenge, but don't necessarily see eye-to-eye on other issues. "We want to think practically ... about how we can improve prospects for a diplomatic solution and create space for long-term stability and prosperity on the peninsula," he said. China heaping scorn on North Korea meeting next week in Vancouver "I think we'll get a more nuanced sense of what diplomatic options may be available to us." NDP foreign affairs critic Helene Laverdiere on Monday called on the Trudeau government to emphasize diplomacy during the Vancouver meeting, especially in the face of the Trump administration's "dangerously bellicose rhetoric." "It is more important than ever for the Canadian government to chart a very different course," she said, "and assert to governments around the world that diplomacy is paramount, even when economic sanctions are underway." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis As rival Koreas thaw relations before the Winter Olympics, U.S. could get frozen out Canada, U.S. looking for diplomatic end to North Korea crisis at Vancouver summit Analysis North Korea summit in Vancouver to focus on enforcing sanctions ahead of diplomacy China heaping scorn on North Korea meeting next week in Vancouver Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now