Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Trump takes credit for possibility of North and South Korea resuming talks U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday called potential talks between North and South Korea "a good thing," and the South Korean presidency said he had agreed there would be no military drills with South Korea during next month's Winter Olympics. Social Sharing U.S. , South Korea commit to holding off on military drills through the end of Paralympics in March Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jan 04, 2018 12:19 PM ET | Last Updated: January 4, 2018 U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un have exchanged threats and insults in recent months, including this week. (Kevin Lamarque/KCNA/Reuters) comments U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday called potential talks between North and South Korea "a good thing," and the South Korean presidency said he had agreed there would be no military drills with South Korea during next month's Winter Olympics. South Korea's Presidential Blue House said Trump told South Korea's President Moon Jae-in in a telephone call that he hoped inter-Korean talks would lead to good results and he would send a high-level delegation, including members of his family, to the Winter Olympics, which will be held in Pyeongchang beginning Feb. 9. In a statement, the White House also confirmed that account, as it pertained to the drills. "The two leaders agreed to de-conflict the Olympics and our military exercises so that United States and Republic of Korea forces can focus on ensuring the security of the Games," the White House said. 'I too have a nuclear button,' Trump warns Kim Jong-un Kim Jong-un says 'the entire United States within range of our nuclear weapons' The White House statement also said the U.S. would send a "high-level delegation," although it didn't specifically mention any names, including members of Trump's family. In a tweet ahead of the South Korean statement, Trump hailed potential talks between North Korea and South Korea as "a good thing" and took credit for any dialogue after Seoul and Pyongyang this week signalled willingness to speak. With all of the failed “experts” weighing in, does anybody really believe that talks and dialogue would be going on between North and South Korea right now if I wasn’t firm, strong and willing to commit our total “might” against the North. Fools, but talks are a good thing!&mdash;@realDonaldTrump North Korea has long denounced U.S.-South Korean joint military exercises as preludes to invasion. U.S. Defence Secretary Jim Mattis played down the delay of the military exercises, saying they would resume after the conclusion of the Paralympics — which take place in South Korea March 9-18 — and that their postponement was simply due to logistical concerns. Mattis, speaking to Pentagon reporters, also credited international pressure on North Korea over its nuclear weapons and missile programs for Pyongyang's offer of talks with the South. But he added that it was too soon to say whether the North Korean gesture was meaningful. "I wouldn't read too much into it, because we don't know if it's a genuine olive branch," Mattis said. U.S. President Donald Trump shares a toast during a state dinner hosted by South Korea's President Moon Jae-in at the Blue House in Seoul on Nov. 7. The Moon administration said the pair talked Thursday and that Trump was encouraging of the prospect of South-North talks. (Jonathan Ernst/Reuters) In a New Year address, North Korea dictator Kim Jong-un said he was open to dialogue with U.S. ally South Korea and could send a delegation to the Winter Olympics. Kim also warned that he would push ahead with "mass producing" nuclear warheads in defiance of UN Security Council sanctions and warned that the entire United States was in range of North Korean nuclear missiles and a nuclear button was always on his desk. Trump responded by mocking Kim as "Little Rocket Man" and saying that his nuclear button was bigger and more powerful and worked. It was a continuation of months of bellicose comments exchanged between the two leaders, raising alarm across the world, with Trump at times dismissing the prospect of a diplomatic solution to a crisis in which both sides have threatened to destroy each other. Military leader stresses alliance with South Seoul answered the North Korean talks overture by proposing high-level talks at a border village next week and on Wednesday, the two Koreas reopened a border hotline that had been closed since February 2016. The head of U.S. forces in South Korea warned on Thursday against raising hopes over North Korea's peace overture amid a war of words over North Korea's development of nuclear tipped missiles capable of hitting the United States. The commander of U.S. Forces Korea (USFK), Gen. Vincent Brooks, said the overture was a strategy to divide five countries — the United States, South Korea, China, Japan and Russia — to reach its goal of being accepted as a "nuclear capable" nation, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported. The commander of U.S. Forces Korea (USFK), Gen. Vincent Brooks, seen in a 2016 file photo in South Korea, expressed skepticism about North Korea's motives in an address Thursday. (Kim Hong-Ji/Reuters) "We must keep our expectations at the appropriate level," he was quoted as saying in an address to a university in Seoul. "We can't ignore that reality," he said, adding it was important for the United States and South Korea to maintain an "ironclad and razor sharp" alliance. North Korea reopens cross-border hotline with South Korea U.S. figure skating execs warn against American boycott of Olympics The five countries mentioned by Brooks were involved in years of on-again-off-again "six-party talks" with North Korea aimed at resolving the crisis, negotiations which eventually fizzled when North Korea pulled out. North Korea says its weapons are necessary to counter U.S. aggression. The United States stations 28,500 troops in the South, a legacy of the 1950-53 Korean War. Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Thursday the security crisis posed by North Korea to Japan was the most perilous since the Second World War and he vowed to bolster defences. On Tuesday, Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said Washington would not take any talks between North and South Korea seriously if they did not contribute to denuclearizing North Korea. She also said Washington was hearing reports that Pyongyang might be preparing to fire another missile and warned of even tougher steps in response if it did so. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories After Trump criticism, China says no illicit oil sales to North Korea Trump administration blames North Korea for WannaCry cyberattack Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now