Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Trump describes White House photo shoot as 'calm before the storm' U.S. President Donald Trump delivered a foreboding message Thursday night, telling reporters as he posed for photos with his senior military leaders that this might be "the calm before the storm," but chose not to elaborate Friday at a proclamation signing. Social Sharing Comments in front of military advisers raise possibility of move with international implications The Associated Press · Posted: Oct 06, 2017 9:28 AM ET | Last Updated: October 6, 2017 Trump: 'It could be the calm before the storm' News3 years ago 0:34U.S. president makes cryptic remark during White House photo-op 0:34 comments U.S. President Donald Trump delivered a foreboding message Thursday night, telling reporters as he posed for photos with his senior military leaders that this might be "the calm before the storm." White House reporters were summoned suddenly and told the president had decided he wanted the press to document a dinner he was holding with the military leaders and their wives. Reporters were led hastily to the grand State Dining Room, where they walked into a scene of the president, his highest-ranking military aides and their wives posing for a group photo. The cameras clicked and they smiled. A joke was made about someone's face being tired. Live classical music played. Then, Trump gestured to the reporters in the room. "You guys know what this represents?" Trump asked. "Maybe it's the calm before the storm. Could be the calm, the calm before the storm." "What storm Mr. President?" one reporter shouted. ISIS? North Korea? Iran? "You'll find out," the president said. During a proclamation signing ceremony in the Oval Office on Friday, Trump did not elaborate, saying, "You'll find out." White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders did not shed more light on Friday when asked by reporters. "We're never going to say in advance what the president's going to do," said Sanders. "I wouldn't say he's messing with the press, I think we have some serious world issues here," she said at another point during the briefing. The president on Thursday evening lauded the military group, including his defence secretary and chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, and said they would be discussing the most pressing military issues facing the country, including North Korea and Iran. Trump said "tremendous progress" had been made with respect to ISIS, adding, "I guess the media's going to be finding out about that over the next short period of time." Military options 'at a much faster pace' He also denounced Iran, saying the country should not be allowed to obtain nuclear weapons, and offered another stark warning to North Korea's Kim Jong-un. "We cannot allow this dictatorship to threaten our nation or allies with unimaginable loss of life," he said, vowing to "do what we must do to prevent that from happening and it will be done, if necessary. Believe me." He also said that he expects those in the room to provide him with "a broad range of military options, when needed, at a much faster pace." The administration, in its first nine months, has endured some fraught Fridays. Trump signed an executive order at the end of the workweek on Jan. 27 barring entry to the country for 90 days for many citizens of several countries. The first so-called travel ban led to a weekend of chaos at many U.S. airports. As well, announcements of the imminent departures of White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer, adviser Steve Bannon and Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price have taken place on a Friday. This week has brought another published report of discord within the administration, involving Rex Tillerson, but the secretary of state strongly confirmed his commitment to the president's agenda and denounced the report. As well, at an Alabama rally for a senatorial candidate on the evening of Friday Sept. 23, Trump went off a tangent involving NFL players kneeling during the playing of the national anthem, referring to any player that chose that protest as a "son of a bitch." It precipitated a weekend of Trump tweets and a counter-response from the NFL, all while U.S. territory Puerto Rico was dealing with the devastating effects of Hurricane Maria, events Trump didn't publicly comment on until early the following week. The Trump administration did announce on Friday a long-expected revision to Obama-era rules which would allow more employers to opt out of providing no-cost birth control to women for religious and moral reasons. The rules require most companies to provide birth control as preventive care for women, at no additional cost. Under the Affordable Care Act, preventive services are supposed to be free of charge to employees and their dependents. The Trump administration's revision issued Friday expands a religious exemption that previously applied to houses of worship, religiously affiliated nonprofit groups, and closely held private companies. Corrections An earlier version referred to the effects of Hurricane Irma on Puerto Rico. The sentence has been corrected to reflect that it was Hurricane Maria that devastated the Puerto Rican islands. Oct 06, 2017 10:07 AM ET With files from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Opinion Here's why it would be wrong for Twitter to suspend Donald Trump's account I'm not going anywhere, Rex Tillerson says after report of frustration with Trump Analysis 'Teleprompted Trump' gets good reviews but Vegas visit will be true test of 'consoler-in-chief' Washington has 'spent a lot' on relief efforts, Trump says in Puerto Rico Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now