Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Trump defends self after comments, says: 'I'm not a racist' U.S. President Donald Trump, on the defensive in the wake of recent disparaging comments about Haiti and African nations that have revived questions about whether the leader of the world's melting pot is a racist, declared Sunday that he is not one. Social Sharing President's comments threaten to upend delicate negotiations over resolving the status of Dreamers The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 14, 2018 11:26 PM ET | Last Updated: January 15, 2018 U.S. President Donald Trump says he's the "least racist" person reporters have ever interviewed. (Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images) U.S. President Donald Trump, on the defensive in the wake of recent disparaging comments about Haiti and African nations that have revived questions about whether the leader of the world's melting pot is a racist, declared Sunday that he is not one. "No, No. I am not a racist," Trump told reporters who asked for his response to those who think he is a racist. "I am the least racist person you have ever interviewed. That I can tell you." Some U.S. media figures call Trump racist after profane remarks Donald Trump comments 'extremely difficult' to hear, says Haitian asylum seeker Trump also denied making the statements attributed to him, but avoided delving into the specifics of what he did or did not say. "Did you see what various senators in the room said about my comments?" he asked, referring to lawmakers who were meeting with him in the Oval Office on Thursday when Trump is said to have made the comments. "They weren't made." Trump called friends for reactions Trump stands accused of using "shithole" to describe African countries during an immigration meeting with a bipartisan group of six senators. The president, in the meeting, also questioned the need to admit more Haitians to the U.S., according to people who were briefed on the conversation but were not authorized to describe the meeting publicly. Trump said in the meeting that he would prefer immigrants from countries like Norway instead. Reaction to Trump's vulgar remarks News3 years ago 9:31The U.S. President, Donald Trump, is in hot water for what some are calling racist remarks. Our Washington Correspondents panel weighs in. 9:31 The White House has not denied that Trump said "shithole" though Trump has already pushed back on some depictions of the meeting. A confidant of Trump's told The Associated Press that the president spent Thursday evening calling friends and outside advisers to judge their reaction to his remarks. Trump wasn't apologetic and denied he was racist, instead blaming the media for distorting his meaning, said the confidant, who wasn't authorized to disclose a private conversation and spoke on condition of anonymity. 'Vile, hate-filled and clearly racial' Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois, the only Democrat at Thursday's meeting, said Trump had indeed said what he was reported to have said. Durbin said the remarks were "vile, hate-filled and clearly racial in their content." He said Trump used the most vulgar term "more than once." Trump commented as Durbin was presenting details of a compromise immigration plan that included providing $1.6 billion for a first instalment of the president's long-sought border wall. Trump denies making 'shithole' comment The National3 years ago 6:18U.S. President Donald Trump has denied making a vulgar comment in which he referred to African countries as 'shitholes.' Trump reportedly made the comment during a bipartisan meeting on immigration — and there appears to be no consensus from those who were there on what was actually said 6:18 Trump took particular issue with the idea that people who'd fled to the U.S. after disasters hit their homes in places such as El Salvador, Guatemala and Haiti would be allowed to stay as part of the deal, according to the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to publicly describe the discussion. When it came to talk of extending protections for Haitians, Durbin said Trump replied, "We don't need more Haitians."' "He said, 'Put me down for wanting more Europeans to come to this country. Why don't we get more people from Norway?"' Durbin said. A 'gross misrepresentation' Republican Sens. David Perdue of Georgia and Tom Cotton of Arkansas, who also attended the meeting, initially said in a statement Friday that they "do not recall the president saying these comments specifically." On Sunday, they backtracked and challenged other senators' descriptions of the remarks. Perdue described as a "gross misrepresentation" reports that Trump used the vulgarity. He said Durbin and Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina were mistaken in indicating that was the case. Graham also attended the meeting. Diplomats scramble to contain outrage over Trump's remarks Trump partly denies, also defends vulgar comments "I am telling you that he did not use that word. And I'm telling you it's a gross misrepresentation," Perdue said on ABC's "This Week." Cotton told CBS's Face the Nation that he "didn't hear" the word used — "and I was sitting no further away from Donald Trump than Dick Durbin was." 'I have a wonderful relationship with Haitians' Trump insisted in a tweet on Friday that he "never said anything derogatory about Haitians other than Haiti is, obviously, a very poor and troubled country. Never said 'take them out.' Made up by Dems." Trump wrote, "I have a wonderful relationship with Haitians. Probably should record future meetings — unfortunately, no trust!" Word of Trump's comments threatened to upend delicate negotiations over resolving the status of hundreds of thousands of immigrants who were brought to the country illegally as children. Trump announced last year that he will end the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, unless lawmakers come up with a solution by March. The program shielded these immigrants, often referred to as Dreamers, from deportation and granted them work permits. Trump tweeted earlier Sunday that the program is "probably dead" and blamed Democrats. He elaborated on the way to dinner with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Republican of California, saying Democrats "don't want to help the DACA people." DACA is probably dead because the Democrats don’t really want it, they just want to talk and take desperately needed money away from our Military.&mdash;@realDonaldTrump Some Democrats have threatened to vote against legislation to extend government funding, which expires on Friday, unless protections for the Dreamers are included. "Honestly I don't think the Democrats want to make a deal," Trump said. "I think they talk about DACA but they don't want to help the DACA people." Trump said Democrats aren't for securing the border and stopping the flow of drugs. "We have a lot of sticking points but they're all Democrat sticking points. We are ready, willing and able to make a deal." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Some U.S. media figures call Trump racist after profane remarks Donald Trump comments 'extremely difficult' to hear, says Haitian asylum seeker Diplomats scramble to contain outrage over Trump's remarks Trump partly denies, also defends vulgar comments Trump asks why U.S. would want immigrants from 'shithole countries' Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now