Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Trump slams Assad, Putin for 'mindless chemical attack in Syria' U.S. President Donald Trump on Sunday condemned a "mindless chemical attack" in Syria that killed women and children, called Syrian President Bashar Assad an "animal" and delivered a rare personal criticism of Russian President Vladimir Putin for supporting the Damascus government. Social Sharing Regime denies attack, while aid group says at least 40 killed in rebel-held town near Damascus The Associated Press · Posted: Apr 08, 2018 6:30 AM ET | Last Updated: April 8, 2018 This image was released early Sunday by the Syrian Civil Defence White Helmets, showing a child receiving oxygen through respirators following an alleged poison gas attack in the rebel-held town of Douma, near Damascus. (Syrian Civil Defence White Helmets via AP) U.S. President Donald Trump on Sunday condemned a "mindless chemical attack" in Syria that killed women and children, called Syrian President Bashar Assad an "animal" and delivered a rare personal criticism of Russian President Vladimir Putin for supporting the Damascus government. As Washington worked to verify the claim by Syrian opposition activists and rescuers that poison gas was used, Trump said there would be a "big price to pay" for resorting to outlawed chemical weapons. A top White House aide, asked about the possibility of a U.S. missile strike in response, said, "I wouldn't take anything off the table." WHO presses Syria to approve evacuation of dozens of critically ill people in Ghouta Russian aid plan for Syria's eastern Ghouta area is not enough, UN says Just over a year ago, Trump ordered dozens of cruise missiles to be fired at a Syrian air base after declaring there was no doubt Assad had "choked out the lives of helpless" civilians in an attack that used banned gases. White House advisers said at the time that images of hurt children helped spur the president to launch that airstrike, and television new shows on Sunday aired similar depictions of suffering young Syrians. "Many dead, including women and children, in mindless CHEMICAL attack in Syria," Trump tweeted. "Area of atrocity is in lockdown and encircled by Syrian Army, making it completely inaccessible to outside world. President Putin, Russia and Iran are responsible for backing Animal Assad. Big price to pay. Open area immediately for medical help and verification. Another humanitarian disaster for no reason whatsoever. SICK!" Many dead, including women and children, in mindless CHEMICAL attack in Syria. Area of atrocity is in lockdown and encircled by Syrian Army, making it completely inaccessible to outside world. President Putin, Russia and Iran are responsible for backing Animal Assad. Big price...&mdash;@realDonaldTrump ....to pay. Open area immediately for medical help and verification. Another humanitarian disaster for no reason whatsoever. SICK!&mdash;@realDonaldTrump Saturday's attack took place in a rebel-held town near Damascus amid a resumed offensive by Syrian government forces after the collapse of a truce. Syrian activists, rescuers and medics said a poison gas attack in Douma killed at least 40 people, with families found suffocated in their houses and shelters. The reports could not immediately be independently verified. The developments come as Trump has moved to dramatically scale back U.S. goals in Syria, pushing for a quick military withdrawal despite resistance from many of his national security advisers. Trump has given no formal order to pull out the 2,000 U.S. troops in Syria or offered a public timetable other than to say the U.S. will withdraw as soon as the remaining Islamic State fighters can be vanquished. This image made from video was released by the Syrian Civil Defence White Helmets and has been authenticated based on its contents and other AP reporting. It shows a medical worker giving a toddler oxygen following an alleged poison gas attack in Douma on Sunday. (Syrian Civil Defense White Helmets via AP) But Trump has signalled to his advisers that, ideally, he wants all troops out within six months. Images released by the Syrian Civil Defence White Helmets, a volunteer organization, show children lying on the ground motionless and foaming at the mouth. The Assad government, in a statement posted on the state-run news agency SANA, denied responsibility. AnalysisWith Iran operating in Syria, Israel girds itself for 'First Northern War' No civilians leave Syria's rebel-held eastern Ghouta on Day 2 of pause in fighting Trump was briefed about the attack by his chief of staff, John Kelly, officials said. Trump's homeland security adviser, Thomas Bossert, noted the timing of the suspected chemical attack — almost a year to the day of the U.S. missile strikes. "This isn't just the United States. This is one of those issues on which every nation, all peoples, have all agreed and have agreed since World War II, it's an unacceptable practice," Bossert said. An injured victim of the alleged attack lies on the ground in rebel-held Douma on Sunday. (Emad Aldin/EPA-EFE) Asked about the potential for an American missile strike in response, Bossert said: "I wouldn't take anything off the table. These are horrible photos. We're looking into the attack at this point." Trump was to meet with his senior military leadership on Monday, the same day his new national security adviser, John Bolton, assumes his post. Bolton has previously advocated significant airstrikes against Syria. Vice-President Mike Pence on Sunday deemed it a "likely chemical attack" and reiterated Trump's threat that consequences would be coming for those responsible. "We condemn in the strongest possible terms the assault on innocent lives, including children," Pence tweeted. "The Assad regime & its backers MUST END their barbaric behaviour." 'Defining moment in his presidency' Trump's decision to single out Putin in a tweet appeared noteworthy because Trump long has been reluctant to personally criticize the Russian leader. Even as the White House, after some delay, imposed tough new sanctions on Russia in the wake of its U.S. election meddling and suspected poisoning of a former spy on British soil, Trump left it to others in his administration to deliver the rebukes to Moscow. Fighting in Syria's Ghouta halts aid delivery, medical evacuations Chemical weapons watchdog probes recent Syria attacks Last month, Trump called Putin and, against the counsel of his advisers, congratulated the Russian president on his re-election and invited him to the White House. On Sunday, Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, urged Trump to "ramp up the pressure and the sanctions on the Russian government, because, without the support of Russia, I do not believe that Assad would still be in office." Trump also invoked Iran in his series of tweets, further challenging Tehran while signalling he may scuttle its nuclear deal with the West. The president has often laid some blame on his predecessor, Barack Obama, for Assad's continued grip on power after years of civil war. If President Obama had crossed his stated Red Line In The Sand, the Syrian disaster would have ended long ago! Animal Assad would have been history!&mdash;@realDonaldTrump Obama said in 2012 that Syria's use of chemical weapons would be a "red line" that would change his decision-making on intervening in the war and have "enormous consequences." After such an attack in 2013 killed hundreds outside Damascus, American ships in the Mediterranean were poised to launch missiles. But Obama pulled back after key U.S. ally Britain, as well as Congress, balked. He opted for a Russian-backed proposal that was supposed to remove and eliminate Syria's chemical weapons stockpiles. "If President Obama had crossed his stated Red Line In The Sand, the Syrian disaster would have ended long ago! Animal Assad would have been history!" Trump tweeted from the White House. If [Trump] doesn't follow through and live up to that tweet, he's going to look weak in the eyes of Russia and Iran- Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham Questions about the administration's possible response reverberated throughout Washington in the hours after the attack. "It's a defining moment in his presidency" that comes as Assad sees the U.S. "determination to stay in Syria waning," said Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. "If he doesn't follow through and live up to that tweet, he's going to look weak in the eyes of Russia and Iran," Graham said. "You need to follow through with that tweet. Show a resolve that Obama never did to get this right." Graham and Bossert were on ABC's This Week, and Collins appeared on CNN's State of the Union. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories WHO presses Syria to approve evacuation of dozens of critically ill people in Ghouta Russian aid plan for Syria's eastern Ghouta area is not enough, UN says Analysis With Iran operating in Syria, Israel girds itself for 'First Northern War' No civilians leave Syria's rebel-held eastern Ghouta on Day 2 of pause in fighting Fighting in Syria's Ghouta halts aid delivery, medical evacuations Chemical weapons watchdog probes recent Syria attacks Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now