Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Turkey's president Erdogan says campaign against Kurds in Syria will continue Turkey's president has said his country will "not take a step back" from its military operation on an enclave in northern Syria controlled by U.S.-allied Kurdish fighters. Social Sharing In separate incident, residents in Douma district of Damascus reported new gas attack on Monday The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 22, 2018 10:21 AM ET | Last Updated: January 22, 2018 A civilian holding a Turkish flag arrives on Monday to encourage the troops at a Turkish Army staging area in the outskirts of the village of Sugedigi, Turkey, on the border with Syria. (Lefteris Pitarakis/Associated Press) Turkey's president has said his country will "not take a step back" from its military operation on an enclave in northern Syria controlled by U.S.-allied Kurdish fighters. Speaking in Ankara on Monday on the third day of the operation, Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey's "fundamental goal" is ensuring national security, preserving Syria's territorial integrity and protecting the Syrian people. "We discussed this with our Russian friends, and we have an agreement," he said. Moscow, a military ally of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad that operates a major air base in Syria, has not confirmed giving a green light to Turkey's campaign, to which Syria has strongly objected. Erdogan slammed the United States for working with Syrian Kurdish YPG forces instead of Turkey in combatting the Islamic State or Iraq and Syria (ISIS). The U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) are dominated by YPG fighters. Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan again slammed the United States for working with Syrian Kurdish YPG forces. Ankara considers the YPG group affiliated with militants at home who frequently launch violent attacks. (Umit Bektas/Reuters) The operation's aim, according to Erdogan, is not to "occupy" any part of Syria but rather to conquer "hearts." Ankara considers the YPG a terrorist group tied to Kurdish insurgents in Turkey. Once Afrin and Idlib to the west are secured, Erdogan said hundreds of thousands of Syrians could return to their homes. Erdogan said: "The Afrin operation will end when it reaches its goals." The death toll from the offensive in the Afrin region stands at 18 civilians, including women and children, the spokesman for the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) militia alliance said on Monday. An additional 23 people have been wounded in the offensive, SDF spokesman Kino Gabriel added in a statement circulated on an instant messaging group run by the SDF.  U.S. was 'warned' Turkish troops would attack Kurdish enclave in northern Syria Turkish jets bombard Kurdish-run city of Afrin in Syria Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, speaking from Indonesia, said Turkey gave the U.S. military advance notice of its airstrikes against Kurdish targets in northern Syria. Mattis defended Turkey, calling it a trusted NATO ally with "legitimate security concerns" about Syria. Deteriorating relationship Mattis said diplomats are working on a solution to Turkey's armed confrontation with Syrian Kurds. He said the U.S. forces based in Syria had not been put at risk by the Turkish attacks, since U.S. troops are not based in that part of Syria. Turkish official says U.S. arming of Kurds in Syria is 'unacceptable' Rex Tillerson, Turkish leaders struggle to resolve Kurds dispute In a statement released Monday afternoon, the White House said the operation "risks exacerbating the humanitarian crisis" in Syria. "We ask that Turkey ensure its operations are limited in scope and duration and ensures humanitarian aid continues and avoid[s] civilian casualties," the statement read. A Kurdish demonstrator holds a flag with a portrait of jailed Kurdish leader Abdullah Ocalan, during a protest at the Russian embassy in Beirut against the operation by the Turkish army aimed at ousting the U.S.-backed Kurdish militia from the area in Afrin. (Hussein Malla/Associated Press) Throughout most of the multi-sided seven-year-old civil war in Syria, Turkey and the United States jointly backed Arab fighters seeking to overthrow Assad. Since 2014, Washington has angered Turkey by growing closer to the Kurdish militia, which it supported with airstrikes, arms, training and special forces advisers on the ground to oppose Islamic State. A protracted campaign could bring relations between the United States and its Muslim NATO ally close to a breaking point. The tension in the relationship also encompasses disputes over visas and diplomats, the prosecution of a Turkish bank official in the U.S., and the continued residency of an exiled cleric in Pennsylvania who Erdogan blames for instigating an unsuccessful 2016 coup. Unconfirmed gas attack in Douma Meanwhile, Syrian activists and rescue teams say the Syrian government has launched an attack with suspected poisonous gas that has affected nearly 20 civilians in a rebel-held suburb near the capital, Damascus. The team of first responders known as While Helmets, or Syrian Civil Defence, says the attack hit a neighbourhood in the Douma district early on Monday. A man is seen with a mask at a medical centre in Douma, Eastern Ghouta in Damascus, on Monday. Activists reported a possible chlorine gas attack, which can't yet be independently verified. (Bassam Khabieh/Reuters) It says the rescuers evacuated more than 20 civilians, most of them women and children, from the area, which they say was hit with suspected chlorine attack. The Ghouta Media Centre, an activist-operated media, also claims the attack involved chlorine gas. Activists say a foul smell followed a series of bombings that hit Douma. The Eastern Ghouta suburb of Damascus has been under intensive attack, and the UN says government forces are holding 400,000 people under siege there. North Korea attempted to help Syria's chemical weapons program: UN report In the wake of the report, the United States urged Russia to use its influence over Assad to intervene. U.S. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said Moscow's "unwillingness or inability to restrain the Assad regime is costing innocent Syrian lives." She said the United States has tried to hold responsible those using chemical weapons in attacks that "have killed far too many Syrians." Such claims are not new but they are difficult to verify because of lack of chemical labs and independent testers. A UN inquiry panel had previously blamed the government for a number of chlorine and sarin attacks in Syria. Shelling was also involved in the Ghouta attack on Monday. Syrian state media and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an opposition-linked group that tracks the conflict, each said nine people were killed in the shelling. With files from Reuters CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Trump congratulates Erdogan on referendum result despite international concerns Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now