Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World Turkish official says U.S. arming of Kurds in Syria is 'unacceptable' A top Syrian Kurdish official on Wednesday welcomed the U.S. decision to arm Kurdish fighters with heavier weapons, saying it would "legitimize" the force as it prepares to march on Raqqa, the de facto capital of the Islamic State group. Social Sharing Deputy Prime Minister Nurettin Canikli expressed hope that Washington would reverse its decision The Associated Press · Posted: May 10, 2017 4:32 AM ET | Last Updated: May 10, 2017 Kurdish fighters from the People's Protection Units (YPG) chat with members of U.S. forces in the town of Darbasiya next to the Turkish border in Syria on April 29, 2017. (Rodi Said/Reuters) A top Syrian Kurdish official on Wednesday welcomed the U.S. decision to arm Kurdish fighters with heavier weapons, saying it would "legitimize" the force as it prepares to march on Raqqa, the de facto capital of the Islamic State group. But Turkey's Deputy Prime Minister Nurettin Canikli said the decision, announced by the Trump administration Tuesday, was "unacceptable." U.S. to arm Kurdish fighters in Syria Turkey warns U.S. to end support for Syrian Kurds The U.S. said it would provide heavier arms to the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces, which have driven ISIS from much of northern Syria with the help of U.S.-led airstrikes, and are among the most effective ground forces battling the extremists. Ankara says the Kurdish militia known as the YPG, which forms the backbone of the force, is an extension of the Kurdistan Worker's Party, or PKK, which has been waging a decades-old insurgency in Turkey and is considered a terrorist group by Turkey, the U.S. and other Western countries. "The Trump administration providing arms to a terrorist organization — either directly or indirectly through the YPG — does not change the fact that this amounts to support to a terror organization." Canikli told Turkey's A Haber television. Ilham Ahmed, a top official in the Syrian Democratic Forces' political office, said the decision to provide heavier arms carries "political meaning" and "legitimizes the YPG and the Syrian Democratic Forces." Erdogan to meet Trump She said the decision is likely to be met with "aggression" from Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is to visit Washington next week. On Wednesday, Erdogan said he hopes the U.S. reverses its decision to arm the Kurdish fighters before the May 16 meeting between the two leaders. Erdogan told a news conference that the "fight against terrorism should not be lead with another terror organization" and that "we want to know that our allies will side with us and not with terror organizations. I hope that they (U.S.) will turn away from this wrong." The SDF's rapid advance against ISIS last year prompted Turkey to send ground forces across the border for the first time in the more than six-year-old civil war to help allied Syrian forces battle ISIS and halt the Kurds' progress. Since then, Turkey is believed to have positioned more than 5,000 troops in northern Syria, and has escalated its airstrikes and cross-border artillery attacks against Kurdish forces. A Turkish air raid in late April killed 20 YPG fighters and media officials, prompting the U.S. to deploy armoured vehicles along the border in a show of support for the group. Canikli expressed hope that Washington would reverse its decision, saying "there is no truth to the claim that the fight against Daesh can only be successful with the YPG." Daesh is the Arabic acronym for ISIS. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories U.S. to arm Kurdish fighters in Syria Syria violence kills 4 despite safe zones Turkey warns U.S. to end support for Syrian Kurds At least 23 killed as Turkey hits Kurdish areas in Iraq, northeast Syria Rex Tillerson, Turkish leaders struggle to resolve Kurds dispute Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now