Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World UN envoy says 'door ajar' to negotiated North Korea solution The UN political chief said Tuesday that senior North Korea officials told him during a four-day visit to the country last week "that it was important to prevent war" over the country's rapidly advancing nuclear and ballistic missile programs. Social Sharing 'They need to signal that they're willing now to go in a different direction' The Associated Press · Posted: Dec 12, 2017 9:19 PM ET | Last Updated: December 13, 2017 The UN political chief said Tuesday that North Korea has signalled it may be open to talks about its nuclear and ballistic missile programs. (KCNA/Reuters) The UN political chief said Tuesday that senior North Korean officials told him during a four-day visit to the country last week "that it was important to prevent war" over the country's rapidly advancing nuclear and ballistic missile programs. Jeffrey Feltman told reporters after briefing the UN Security Council privately that "how we do that" was the topic of more than 15 hours of discussions he had with Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho, Vice Minister Pak Myong Guk, and other officials. Feltman, a veteran American diplomat who is the UN undersecretary-general for political affairs, said he told the North Koreans "they need to signal that they're willing now to go in a different direction, to start some kind of engagement, to start talking about talks." He called the mission the most important one that he has ever taken, but he was cautious about the impact and future steps. "They listened seriously to our arguments ... they argued with us," Feltman said. "They did not offer any type of commitment to us at that point. They have to reflect on what we said with their own leadership" and decide how to respond. "I think we've left the door ajar, and I fervently hope that the door to a negotiated solution will now be opened wide," he added. In rare North Korea visit, UN presses need to 'reduce the risks of conflict' 'Just a matter of time': North Korea's missile capabilities may be closer than once thought Feltman's visit came at a time of heightened tensions between North Korea and South Korea, Japan and the United States, sparked by the reclusive country's frequent missile launches and recent nuclear test explosion, and particularly by its latest launch of a long-range ballistic missile that experts say could reach Washington. Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump have traded insults and engaged in escalating rhetoric in recent months but Secretary of State Rex Tillerson softened the U.S. stance on possible talks with North Korea on Tuesday. Tillerson offered to meet the North Koreans without preconditions and said it was it "unrealistic" to expect the nuclear-armed country to come to the table ready to give up a nuclear weapons program that it invested so much in developing. He said Trump endorsed his stance. Feltman, when asked about the new U.S. approach, said the Security Council is united on the need for a political solution, "so I would underscore that that was the message I took to Pyongyang." "But we have to get there by opening the door to a different direction from the current trajectory" with North Korea, he said. "They agreed that it was important to prevent war." U.S. plans extra sanctions against North Korea after its latest nuclear missile claim CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories In rare North Korea visit, UN presses need to 'reduce the risks of conflict' 'Just a matter of time': North Korea's missile capabilities may be closer than once thought North Korean regime would be 'utterly destroyed' if it provokes war, U.S. ambassador warns U.S. plans extra sanctions against North Korea after its latest nuclear missile claim North Korea says war inevitable as allies continue war games U.S., South Korea launch air drills amid North Korean warnings of nuclear war Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now