Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World UN Security Council unanimously OKs stiffer sanctions against North Korea The UN Security Council voted unanimously Friday to impose new sanctions on North Korea following the country's latest intercontinental ballistic missile test, a move that analysts say could have a significant impact on the isolated country's struggling economy. Social Sharing Resolution bans 90% of refined petroleum product exports to North Korea, forces repatriation of ex-pat workers Thomson Reuters · Posted: Dec 22, 2017 8:25 AM ET | Last Updated: December 23, 2017 North Korean leader Kim Jong-un delivers opening remarks at the Fifth Conference of Cell Chairpersons of the Workers' Party of Korea, in an undated photo released by North Korea's Korean Central News Agency in Pyongyang on Friday. (KCNA/via Reuters) The UN Security Council voted unanimously Friday to impose new sanctions on North Korea following the country's latest intercontinental ballistic missile test, a move that analysts say could have a significant impact on the isolated country's struggling economy. The resolution seeks to ban nearly 90 per cent of refined petroleum product exports to North Korea by capping them at 500,000 barrels a year and demands the repatriation of North Koreans working abroad within 12 months. The U.S.-drafted resolution would also cap crude oil supplies to North Korea at four million barrels a year. The United States has been calling on China to limit its oil supply to its neighbour and ally. Canada, U.S. to co-host meeting on North Korea in Vancouver Tillerson, White House offer different opinions on North Korea talks The resolution passed 15-0, said Japan's ambassador to the United Nations. Japan holds the presidency of the Security Council this month. North Korea on Nov. 29 said it successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile in a "breakthrough" that puts the U.S. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons whose warheads could withstand re-entry to the Earth's atmosphere. Tensions have been rising over North Korea's nuclear and missile programs, which it pursues in defiance of years of Security Council resolutions, with bellicose rhetoric coming from both Pyongyang and the White House. In November, North Korea called for a halt to what it called "brutal sanctions," saying a previous round imposed after its sixth and most powerful nuclear test on Sept. 3 constituted genocide. U.S. diplomats have made clear they are seeking a diplomatic solution but have proposed new, tougher sanctions to ratchet up pressure on North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Workers from a nearby North Korean restaurant walk along a footpath wearing traditional costumes in central Beijing on June 18, 2012. (David Gray/Reuters) Regular threats North Korea regularly threatens to destroy South Korea, the United States and Japan, and says its weapons programs are necessary to counter U.S. aggression. The United States stations 28,500 troops in the South, a legacy of the 1950-53 Korean War. On Friday, a spokesperson for North Korea's foreign ministry called U.S. President Donald Trump's recently released national security strategy the latest U.S. policy seeking to "stifle our country and turn the entire Korean peninsula" into an outpost of U.S. hegemony. He said Trump was seeking "total subordination of the whole world". Speaking before the Security Council vote, analysts said the new sanctions could have a major effect on the North's economy. "If they were enforced, the cap on oil would be devastating for North Korea's haulage industry, for North Koreans who use generators at home or for productive activities, and for (state-owned enterprises) that do the same," said Peter Ward, a columnist for NK News, a website that tracks North Korea. 'Serious step' The forced repatriation of foreign workers would also cut off vital sources of foreign currency and investment not only for the government but also for North Korea's emerging market economy, he said. "If such sanctions were enforced, they would thus impede and endanger North Korea's economic development." Asked about the effects of sanctions before these latest proposals were announced, Michael Kirby, who led a UN inquiry into human rights abuses in North Korea, said cutting off fuel imports would be "a very serious step." "Cutting off oil, petroleum supplies, would obviously have a very big impact on the ordinary population," he said. China, which supplies most of North Korea's oil, has backed successive rounds of UN sanctions but had resisted past U.S. calls to cut off supplies to its neighbour. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Tillerson, White House offer different opinions on North Korea talks Canada, U.S. to co-host meeting on North Korea in Vancouver North Korea says naval blockade would be 'act of war' Australian police allege man tried to sell missile parts to help North Korea Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now