Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World U.S. moves ships, bombers toward Korean Peninsula ahead of Olympics The U.S. is beefing up its presence around the Korean Peninsula ahead of next month's Winter Olympics by deploying stealth bombers, at least one extra aircraft carrier and a new amphibious assault ship to the region. Social Sharing Washington is 'chilling the atmosphere for improved inter-Korean relations,' Pyongyang says The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 15, 2018 8:05 AM ET | Last Updated: January 15, 2018 A B-2 Spirit taxis on the flightline at Andersen Air Force Base in Guam. The U.S. is beefing up its presence around the Korean Peninsula ahead of 2018 Winter Olympics. (Staff Sgt. Joshua Smoot/U.S. Air Force via Associated Press) The U.S. is beefing up its presence around the Korean Peninsula ahead of next month's Winter Olympics by deploying stealth bombers, at least one extra aircraft carrier and a new amphibious assault ship to the region. Coming after Washington agreed to postpone massive annual military manoeuvres with South Korea until after the Games, North Korea says the U.S. is trying to put a chill on its renewed talks with Seoul. "Such moves are an unpardonable military provocation chilling the atmosphere for improved inter-Korean relations," the North's ruling party said in a commentary published over the weekend. Representatives of both Koreas held a second round of talks Monday near the Demilitarized Zone to try to pave the way for a North Korean delegation to join the Pyeongchang Games. AnalysisANALYSIS | North Korea summit in Vancouver to focus on enforcing sanctions ahead of diplomacy North, South Korea agree to further talks aimed at easing tensions The U.S. has officially welcomed the talks, and the moves represent routine training and scheduled upgrades, according to U.S. military officials. Tensions remain high and the military deployments are significant. Last week, the Pacific Air Forces announced three B-2 "Spirit" stealth bombers with approximately 200 personnel have been deployed from Whiteman Air Force Base in Missouri to the Pacific island of Guam. The nuclear-powered USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier leaves San Diego Bay for deployment to the western Pacific, in San Diego, on Jan. 5. (Gregory Bull/Associated Press) The statement said the deployment is intended to provide leaders with "deterrent options to maintain regional stability." But the Guam deployment hits an especially sore nerve and plays on a key vulnerability for Pyongyang, which is probably the message Washington had in mind as it seeks to make sure nothing happens during the Olympics and also let Pyongyang know its decision to postpone the exercises is not a sign of weakness. 'Deterrent options' Last year, flights by B-1B bombers from Guam to the airspace around Korea were a major flashpoint, prompting a warning from North Korea that it had drawn up a plan to target the waters around the island with a missile strike that it could carry out anytime Kim gave the order. The B-2 is more threatening. It's the most advanced bomber in the Air Force and, unlike the B-1B, can carry nuclear weapons. It's also the only known aircraft that can drop the Air Force's biggest bomb, the 14,000-kilogram GBU-57 Massive Ordnance Penetrator. 'I too have a nuclear button,' Trump warns Kim Jong-un Reporting with a blindfold: What it's like to be a journalist covering North Korea The "MOP," capable of penetrating deep into the ground to destroy reinforced tunnels and bunkers, was explicitly designed with North Korea in mind. The B-2 deployment came just days after the USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier departed for the western Pacific in what the Navy called a regularly scheduled deployment. South Korean media reports say the carrier and its strike group will reach waters near the Korean Peninsula ahead of the start of the Games on Feb. 9. The USS Ronald Reagan aircraft carrier, whose home port is just south of Tokyo in Yokosuka, is also in the region, and North Korea has accused the U.S. of planning to send another carrier, the USS John Stennis from Bremerton, Washington. Such moves are an unpardonable military provocation chilling the atmosphere for improved inter-Korean relations.- North Korea ruling party The marines announced on Sunday the arrival in southern Japan of the USS Wasp, an upgraded amphibious assault ship that can carry troops and launch the corps' new F-35B stealth fighters. It can carry 30-plus aircraft, including the F-35s, which are designed for vertical takeoffs and landings. The ships and bombers could figure largely in a U.S. response to any military emergencies during the Winter Games. North Korea may view them as a greater and more imminent threat. Aircraft carriers, virtually impervious to any attack the North could mount, are floating platforms for sustained air assaults, while the F-35 fighters could be a key part of any potential strike on Kim Jong-un himself. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis North Korea summit in Vancouver to focus on enforcing sanctions ahead of diplomacy North, South Korea agree to further talks aimed at easing tensions 'I too have a nuclear button,' Trump warns Kim Jong-un Reporting with a blindfold: What it's like to be a journalist covering North Korea Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now