Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World U.S. plans extra sanctions against North Korea after its latest nuclear missile claim The United States plans to impose additional sanctions against North Korea soon, a White House spokesperson says after Pyongyang said it had it successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) and could now reach the U.S. mainland with its nuclear weapons. Social Sharing 1st missile test since Trump put the hermit nation back on list of countries it says support terrorism Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 28, 2017 2:03 PM ET | Last Updated: November 30, 2017 A street monitor in Tokyo on Wednesday shows a news report about North Korea's latest missile launch, on Wednesday. (Toru Hanai/Reuters) The United States plans to impose additional sanctions against North Korea soon, a White House spokesperson said Wednesday after Pyongyang said it had it successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) and could now reach the U.S. mainland with its nuclear weapons. "We're going to add additional sanctions very shortly that will continue to put that maximum pressure on North Korea," Sarah Huckabee Sanders told Fox News in an interview. Sanders also said the Trump administration would also "try to push Russia to take a bigger and bolder stance to put more pressure on North Korea." Her comments come after U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted on Wednesday that new sanctions would be imposed on North Korea. "Just spoke to President Xi Jinping of China concerning the provocative actions of North Korea. Additional major sanctions will be imposed on North Korea today. This situation will be handled!" Trump said on Twitter. He gave no other details about the type of sanctions being considered. North Korea said it successfully tested the new missile on Wednesday in a "breakthrough" that puts the U.S. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons whose warheads could withstand re-entry to the Earth's atmosphere. North Korea's first since mid-September came a week after Trump put North Korea back on a U.S. list of countries it says support terrorism, allowing it to impose more sanctions. This graphic from the Center for Strategic and International Studies shows North Korea's various ballistic missiles and their ranges. (Center for Strategic and International Studies ) North Korea, which also conducted its sixth and largest nuclear test in September, has tested dozens of ballistic missiles under leader Kim Jong-un in defiance of international sanctions. The latest was the highest and longest any North Korean missile had flown, landing in the sea near Japan. Flew 950 km North Korea said the new powerful missile reached an altitude of around 4,475 kilometres — more than 10 times the height of the international space station — and flew 950 km during its 53-minute flight. "After watching the successful launch of the new type ICBM Hwasong-15, Kim Jong-un declared with pride that now we have finally realized the great historic cause of completing the state nuclear force, the cause of building a rocket power," according to a statement read by a television presenter. Trump on North Korea missile launch World3 years ago 3:13U.S. President Donald Trump says the U.S will 'take care of that situation" in reference to North Korea's missile launch 3:13 State media said the missile was launched from a newly developed vehicle. State media said Kim personally guided the missile test and that the new launcher was "impeccable." He reportedly described the new vehicle as a "breakthrough." In the statement, North Korea described itself as a "responsible nuclear power," saying its strategic weapons were developed to defend itself from "the U.S. imperialists' nuclear blackmail policy and nuclear threat." The UN Security Council was scheduled to meet on Wednesday to discuss the launch. Many nuclear experts say the North has yet to prove it has mastered all technical hurdles including the ability to deliver a nuclear warhead reliably atop an ICBM, but likely soon will. "We don't have to like it, but we're going to have to learn to live with North Korea's ability to target the United States with nuclear weapons," said Jeffrey Lewis, head of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of Strategic Studies. 'Threaten everywhere in the world' U.S., Japanese and South Korean officials all agreed the missile, which landed within Japan's exclusive economic zone, was likely an ICBM. It did not pose a threat to the United States, its territories or allies, the Pentagon said. "It went higher frankly than any previous shot they've taken, a research and development effort on their part to continue building ballistic missiles that can threaten everywhere in the world, basically," U.S. Defence Secretary Jim Mattis told reporters at the White House. BREAKING: Ambassador Nikki Haley &amp; her counterparts from Japan &amp; the Republic of Korea have requested an emergency <a href="https://twitter.com/UN?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@UN</a> Security Council meeting to be held in the open chamber in response to <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NorthKorea?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#NorthKorea</a>’s latest <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ICBM?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ICBM</a> test. The Council will meet tomorrow around 4:30pm EST.&mdash;@USUN Trump spoke by phone with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and South Korean President Moon Jae-in, with all three leaders reaffirming their commitment to combat the North Korean threat. "It is a situation that we will handle," Trump told reporters. 'Diplomatic options remain viable' Moon told Trump that North Korea's missile technology seemed to have improved, a spokesperson for the South Korean leader's office said. Trump, who was briefed on the missile while it was in flight, said it did not change his administration's approach to North Korea, which has included new curbs to hurt trade between China and North Korea. Washington has said repeatedly that all options, including military ones, are on the table in dealing with North Korea. Trump puts North Korea on terrorism blacklist The National3 years ago 2:10U.S. President Donald Trump has designated North Korea as a sponsor of terrorism and is promising tougher sanctions over the development of nuclear weapons. North Korea joins Iran, Sudan and Syra on America's terror blacklist; Canada's list consists only of Iran and Syria 2:10 "Diplomatic options remain viable and open, for now," U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said. Other than carrying out existing UN sanctions, "the international community must take additional measures to enhance maritime security, including the right to interdict maritime traffic" travelling to North Korea, Tillerson said in a statement. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres strongly condemned the launch. "This is a clear violation of Security Council resolutions and shows complete disregard for the united view of the international community," his spokesperson said in a statement. China, North Korea's lone major ally, expressed "grave concern" at the test, while calling for all sides to act cautiously. U.S. East Coast in range? The new Hwasong-15, named after the planet Mars, was a more advanced version of the Hwasong-14 ICBM tested twice in July, North Korea said. It was designed to carry a "super-large heavy warhead" and had much greater advantages in its tactical and technological specifications than its predecessor. AnalysisSpying without spies: Why it's so tricky to figure out what North Korea is up to Daring defection of North Korean soldier captured in dramatic video Based on its trajectory and distance, the missile would have a range of more than 13,000 km — more than enough to reach Washington D.C., the U.S.-based Union of Concerned Scientists said. However, it was unclear how heavy a payload the missile was carrying, and it was uncertain if it could carry a large nuclear warhead that far, the nonprofit science advocacy group added. 'Could get out of control' Minutes after the North fired the missile, South Korea's military conducted a missile-firing test in response, the South Korean military said. South Korean military conducts drills immediately after North Korea missile launch News3 years ago 0:59South Korea's military conducts joint drills that included firing mobile rocket launchers and deploying F-16 fighter jets 0:59 South Korea's Moon said the launch had been anticipated and the government had been preparing for it. There was no choice but for countries to keep applying pressure and sanctions against North Korea, he added. "The situation could get out of control if North Korea perfects its ICBM technology," Moon said, according to the Blue House after a national security council meeting. "North Korea shouldn't miscalculate the situation and threaten South Korea with a nuclear weapon, which could elicit a possible pre-emptive strike by the United States." North Koreans react at the Pyongyang Railway Station after the news of the successful launch of the new intercontinental ballistic missile on Wednesday. (Kim Won-Jin/AFP/Getty Images) Winter Olympics soon The test comes less than three months before South Korea hosts the Winter Olympics at a resort just 80 kilometres from the heavily fortified border with the North. North Korea has said its weapons programs are a necessary defence against U.S. plans to invade. U.S. nuclear commander would propose other options before a strike on North Korea Skeletal remains of 8 people found in wooden boat washed up on Japanese beach The United States, which has 28,500 troops in South Korea as a legacy of the 1950-53 Korean war, denies any such intention. Last week, North Korea denounced Trump's decision to relist it as a state sponsor of terrorism, calling it a "serious provocation and violent infringement." Freeland calls for diplomacy A U.S. government source said the U.S. assessment was the launch was the latest in a serious series of tests to develop and perfect North Korea missile systems rather than any response to Trump. Trump has traded insults and threats with Kim and warned in September that the United States would have no choice but to "totally destroy" North Korea if forced to defend itself or its allies. Minister of Foreign Affairs Chrystia Freeland released a statement condemning the attacks while offering support for "Japan, South Korea, and other partners in the region."  Freeland's statement also included a desire for using diplomacy to handle the situation.  Canada to co-host meeting on North Korea crisis with United States "Today, Canada is announcing that it will soon convene a meeting of foreign ministers in Canada, co-hosted with the United States, to address this most pressing international security threat. A specific date and location for this meeting will be announced in due course." The British Foreign Office said it had summoned the North Korean ambassador to condemn Wednesday's ballistic missile test. Mark Field, minister for Asia and the Pacific, said in a statement he called the meeting to "make clear to him our condemnation of this latest ballistic missile test." "North Korea claims it wants to bring security and prosperity to its people. But its actions are creating only insecurity and deepening its isolation," said Field. South Korean soldiers walk by a TV screen showing the live broadcast about North Korea's missile launch, at the Seoul Railway Station in Seoul. After 2 ½ months of relative peace, North Korea launched its most powerful weapon yet early Wednesday. (Lee Jin-man/Associated Press) The latest test is a provocative act, Russia said on Wednesday, calling on all sides involved to stay calm to avoid a clash. "Certainly, this new missile launch is a provocative act, which provokes further growth in tension and which moves us further away from the point where a settlement of the crisis can begin," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on a conference call with reporters. Russia and China have proposed a roadmap for defusing the crisis in the region. On Wednesday, Russia's foreign ministry repeated its offer to use the plan, calling on North Korea to stop its missile and nuclear tests, while urging the United States and South Korea to abstain from their "unprecedentedly large-scale, unscheduled military air exercises announced to be held in early December." With files from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories North Korean regime would be 'utterly destroyed' if it provokes war, U.S. ambassador warns Analysis Spying without spies: Why it's so tricky to figure out what North Korea is up to Canada to co-host meeting on North Korea crisis with United States Skeletal remains of 8 people found in wooden boat washed up on Japanese beach Daring defection of North Korean soldier captured in dramatic video U.S. nuclear commander would propose other options before a strike on North Korea Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now