Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World U.S., South Korea launch air drills amid North Korean warnings of nuclear war The United States and South Korea begin large-scale joint aerial drills, a move North Korea had said would push the Korean peninsula to "the brink of nuclear war," ignoring calls from Russia and China to call them off. Social Sharing China, Russia had proposed stopping military exercises in exchange for Pyongyang halting weapons programs Thomson Reuters · Posted: Dec 04, 2017 7:46 AM ET | Last Updated: December 4, 2017 A U.S. air force EA-18G Growler fighter jet prepares to land at the Osan U.S. Air Base in Pyeongtaek, South Korea, on Monday. Hundreds of aircraft including two dozen stealth jets began training Monday as the United States and South Korea launched their biggest-ever combined air force exercise. (Ahn Young-joon/Associated Press) The United States and South Korea went ahead with large-scale joint aerial drills on Monday, a move North Korea had said would push the Korean peninsula to "the brink of nuclear war," ignoring calls from Russia and China to call them off. The drills come a week after North Korea said it had tested its most advanced intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the United States as part of a weapons program that it has conducted in defiance of international sanctions and condemnation. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said it was "regrettable" that all parties had not "grasped the window of opportunity" presented by two months of relative calm before the North's most recent test. China and Russia had proposed that the United States and South Korea stop major military exercises in exchange for North Korea halting its weapons programs. Beijing formally calls the idea the "dual suspension" proposal. North Korea calls Trump's Asia tour 'a warmonger's trip' U.S. nuclear commander would propose other options before a strike on North Korea The annual U.S.-South Korean drill, called Vigilant Ace, will run until Friday, with six F-22 Raptor stealth fighters to be deployed among the more than 230 aircraft taking part. North Korea's so-called Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Country called U.S. President Donald Trump "insane" on Sunday and said the drills would "push the already acute situation on the Korean peninsula to the brink of nuclear war." F-35 fighters will also join the drills, which will include the largest number of fifth-generation fighters ever to have taken part, according to a South Korea-based U.S. Air Force spokesperson. Recent missile test Around 12,000 U.S. service members, including from the marines and navy, will join South Korean troops. Aircraft taking part will be flown from eight U.S. and South Korean military installations. South Korean media reports said B-1B Lancer bombers could join the exercise this week. The U.S. air force spokesperson could not confirm the reports. Trump said last week that additional major sanctions would be imposed on North Korea after Pyongyang's intercontinental ballistic missile test. Military personnel gather at Kim Il Sung Square on Friday in Pyongyang, North Korea, to make a show of support for the country's latest missile test. (Jon Chol Jin/Associated Press) Earlier last month, Trump put North Korea back on a list of state sponsors of terrorism, a designation that allows the United States to impose more sanctions. Russia has accused the United States of trying to provoke North Korean leader Kim Jong Un into "flying off the handle" over his missile program to hand Washington a pretext to destroy his country. Speaking at a news briefing in Beijing, Wang said China consistently opposed any behaviour that elevated tensions. "And measures that don't abide by or are outside the UN Security Council resolutions lack basis in international law and damage the rights of United Nations members," Wang said when asked about the prospect of further U.S. sanctions against North Korea. 'Extremely dangerous' China's Air Force said on Monday that its surveillance aircraft had in recent days conducted drills in the Yellow Sea and East China Sea to "improve combat-readiness and safeguard the country's strategic interests." The aircraft took a flight path not previously flown to regions they had never previously operated in, and coordinated with fighter jets, alert aircraft and guided missile forces, spokesperson Shen Jinke said, according to a post on the air force's official blog. AnalysisSpying without spies: Why it's so tricky to figure out what North Korea is up to U.S. plans extra sanctions against North Korea after its latest nuclear missile claim The joint exercises between South Korea and United States are designed to enhance readiness and operational capability and to ensure peace and security on the Korean peninsula, the U.S. military had said before the drills began. The North's KCNA state news agency, citing a foreign ministry spokesperson, said on Saturday the Trump administration was "begging for nuclear war by staging an extremely dangerous nuclear gamble on the Korean peninsula." North Korea regularly uses its state media to threaten the United States and its allies. North Korea has tested dozens of ballistic missiles and conducted its sixth and largest nuclear bomb test in September, in violation of UN Security Council resolutions. It has said its weapons programs are a necessary defence against U.S. plans to invade. The United States, which has 28,500 troops stationed in South Korea, a legacy of the 1950-53 Korean War, denies any such intention. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories North Korea calls Trump's Asia tour 'a warmonger's trip' Analysis Spying without spies: Why it's so tricky to figure out what North Korea is up to Canada to co-host meeting on North Korea crisis with United States U.S. nuclear commander would propose other options before a strike on North Korea U.S. plans extra sanctions against North Korea after its latest nuclear missile claim 'Flash Drives for Freedom': How smuggled western media could take down Kim Jong-un Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now