Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Vic Fedeli refuses to comment on Patrick Brown, saying he 'must remain neutral' in PC leadership race Despite booting former Ontario Progressive Conservative leader Patrick Brown from caucus just days ago, interim leader Vic Fedeli refused to comment on controversies enveloping Brown on Tuesday, saying he "must remain neutral" in the party's ongoing leadership contest. Social Sharing Interim Ontario PC leader Vic Fedeli kicked Brown out of caucus just days ago CBC News · Posted: Feb 20, 2018 12:06 PM ET | Last Updated: February 20, 2018 Ontario PC party interim leader Vic Fedeli said he could no longer comment publicly on the controversies swirling around Patrick Brown because he 'must remain neutral' in the party's leadership race. (Nathan Denette/Canadian Press) Despite booting former Ontario Progressive Conservative leader Patrick Brown from caucus just days ago, interim leader Vic Fedeli refused to comment on controversies enveloping Brown on Tuesday, saying he "must remain neutral" in the party's ongoing leadership contest. "It's unfair to talk about Mr. Brown and those decisions. It happened before he entered the leadership race," Fedeli told reporters gathered at Queen's Park about his decision to remove Brown from caucus.  "I am not going to offer comment about a candidate or any of the history." Patrick Brown appeals to grassroots supporters at PC leadership campaign event Patrick Brown's PC leadership bid could lead to 'political fratricide,' experts say The move came just hours after Fedeli revealed that the Simcoe North MPP would be forced to sit as an independent in the Legislature.  When pressed by reporters to elaborate on his decision, Fedeli would say only that Brown's ouster followed the same protocols that Brown himself used to kick Ottawa-area MPP Jack MacLaren from caucus last year.  Fedeli also revealed that he wrote to the party executive before Brown joined the leadership race, raising concerns about his suitability as a Tory candidate. "I wrote to the party president and indicated that Mr. Brown did not have my confidence to be party candidate in Barrie," Fedeli said. Brown resigned his post as leader last month following allegations of sexual misconduct from two women, initially reported by CTV. Over the weekend, Brown held a campaign rally in Mississauga, Ont., during which he repeatedly said he has cleared his name since the allegations were published.  Ontario MPP and former Ontario PC leader Patrick Brown held a campaign event with supporters near Toronto over the weekend. While he has registered to run in the PC leadership race, his candidacy could still be rejected by the party's nominations committee. (Chris Young/Canadian Press) When pressed for comment on the various developing scandals dogging Brown, Fedeli said "it is not for me to comment on any of our candidates at all. "Again, I think those are questions that you should ask Patrick Brown ... I am going to respect the process and let the leadership races play out." Ex-leader Patrick Brown expelled from Ontario PC caucus Apart from Brown, four other candidates have entered the leadership contest. As of Tuesday morning, however, there was confusion about whether Brown would in fact be cleared to run for leader. His candidacy must be approved by the PC's provincial nomination committee, which wields the power to reject a candidate on any grounds it sees fit. Fedeli stressed that he has no influences over the committee's decisions. "It's an open and fair process. The rules apply to everyone, all of the five candidates that are entered," Fedeli said. "I am going to leave it up to the leadership process." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Patrick Brown appeals to grassroots supporters at PC leadership campaign event Patrick Brown's PC leadership bid could lead to 'political fratricide,' experts say Patrick Brown registers to run in PC leadership race Recap Ontario PC leadership candidates talk sex ed, tax cuts in 1st debate Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now