Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News British Columbia Victoria asks fossil fuel companies to pay for climate change costs City to send an accountability letter to a group of fossil fuel companies demanding they pay the a share of the city's costs associated with climate change. Social Sharing City joins two other Vancouver Island municipalities sending an accountability letter The Canadian Press · Posted: Oct 13, 2017 9:25 AM PT | Last Updated: October 13, 2017 2016 was the hottest year on record since records began in the 19th century in a trend that almost all scientists blame on greenhouse gases from burning of fossil fuels. (Reuters) The City of Victoria is about to become the third Vancouver Island municipality to send what it calls a climate accountability letter to 20 of the world's largest fossil fuel companies. A majority of Victoria councillors have approved sending the letter, which asks the companies, including Exxon, Chevron and Shell, to pay their share of the city's climate costs. The motion to send the letter also includes a call for other local governments across Canada to make similar requests. More than 55 British Columbia-based legal and environmental groups joined forces in January to urge B.C.'s local governments to send climate accountability letters to the fossil fuel industry. Since then, the districts of Saanich and Highlands have contacted companies demanding payment for the costs of climate change. READ MORE: Saanich to ask fossil fuel producers to pay up for climate change Lawsuit against oil companies Organizations such as West Coast Environmental Law have also asked municipalities to consider a lawsuit against oil companies for a portion of local climate costs, similar to those filed recently by California municipalities, including San Francisco and Oakland. West Coast Environmental Law climate campaigner Anjali Appadurai says Victoria's decision to forward the letter sends a powerful legal and symbolic message to the industry. "It sets the stage for other municipalities to take this type of action, to demand a fair share of the costs they are already incurring due to climate change," she said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories CBC News Video Can scientists cool the Earth & save the planet from climate change? How David Suzuki thinks humans can sustainably coexist with the earth at this point Saanich to ask fossil fuel producers to pay up for climate change Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now