Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Thunder Bay "We are still behind in the curve here," says head of Northwestern Health Unit Health officials in the farthest west portion of Ontario have reason to believe the region will not be inundated with COVID-19 patients. Social Sharing Hospital, health unit look forward to more tests being administered in the northwest Jeff Walters · CBC News · Posted: Apr 14, 2020 10:59 AM ET | Last Updated: April 14, 2020 Lake of the Woods Hospital in Kenora has 12 ICU beds and 7 ventilators ready for any admitted COVID-19 patients. (www.lwdh.on.ca) Health officials in the farthest west portion of Ontario have reason to believe the region will not be inundated with COVID-19 patients. Communities in the Northwestern Health Unit (NWHU) have nine reported positive cases of COVID-19, with virtually all of them being travel related. Manitobans asked to skip weekends at northwestern Ontario camps Nearly 350 tests have come back as negative, with about 230 tests still being analyzed. "I think this is a good sign. I think we are still behind in the curve here, so we do have time before we are dealing with this wave that is now largely affecting other parts of Ontario," said Dr. Ian Gemmill, the acting medical officer of health for the NWHU. Gemmill said he is hopeful people with seasonal homes will continue to heed the message that travel between northwestern Ontario and other regions is considered unnecessary. He said one of his largest concerns is seasonal residents coming to the region, falling ill, and then requiring care which, "would be chaotic for health services." 'Lapping at our shores': Small and remote hospitals anxiously await a COVID-19 influx Gemmill re-iterated that the region can likely handle the COVID-19 cases for people who live in the area and become sick from the virus, but not an influx of people from elsewhere. More testing Gemmill, along with Ray Racette, the president and CEO of the Lake of the Woods District Hospital said they look forward to the provincial government increasing the amount of testing for the virus. Racette said the hospital supplies the testing kits in Kenora, and he envisions seven sites being set up for testing, as far away as Sioux Narrows. Manitobans could overwhelm cottage country if they vacation during pandemic, health officials warn He said there is no specific number of tests he wants to see administered in the area, but said a figure in the thousands would be appropriate, with local labs, once they are equipped and approved to analyze the swabs, able to deliver local results in a matter of hours. "That's ultimately going to come as an additional area of service, and certainly Thunder Bay is looking at that, as we are, as is Sioux Lookout. We are looking at the opportunity as well to send specimens into Manitoba." Racette said the region's distance from other major centres gives it an advantage in learning best practices on managing the virus from other areas. He said the hospital is still working on reducing its occupancy, but is still dealing with some staffing shortages because of employees in self-isolation. Racette said the hospital has seven ventilators and 12 ICU beds ready for any admitted cases of COVID-19. He said the hospital is also looking at creating COVID positive and non-positive units as well. The other major challenge for the hospital is that it has only received about 20 per cent of its personal protective equipment, Racette said. He also noted the Keewatin Arena will be ready to accept people in precarious situations this week, by creating a space for 30 people to reside if they need to self-isolate, adding it is meant to be a temporary measure and will be transformed back into an arena by mid to end of June. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Jeff Walters Reporter/Editor Born and raised in Thunder Bay, Jeff is proud to work in his hometown, as well as throughout northwestern Ontario. Away from work, you can find him skiing (on water or snow), curling, out at the lake or flying. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Manitobans asked to skip weekends at northwestern Ontario camps 'Lapping at our shores': Small and remote hospitals anxiously await a COVID-19 influx Manitobans could overwhelm cottage country if they vacation during pandemic, health officials warn Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now