Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News World White House has become 'adult daycare,' Republican says after Trump criticism An enraged U.S. President Donald Trump and a prominent Republican senator who fears the country could be edging toward "chaos" engaged in an intense and vitriolic back-and-forth bashing on social media Sunday, a remarkable airing of their party's profound rifts. Social Sharing Fiscal conservative Bob Corker becomes party's latest lawmaker to face president's wrath The Associated Press · Posted: Oct 08, 2017 4:55 PM ET | Last Updated: October 9, 2017 Senator Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee who is chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee, chats with reporters at the Capitol in Washington. Corker isn't seeking re-election, and that gives him elbow room to say what he wants to. (J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press) An enraged U.S. President Donald Trump and a prominent Republican senator who fears the country could be edging toward "chaos" engaged in an intense and vitriolic back-and-forth bashing on social media Sunday, a remarkable airing of their party's profound rifts. In political discourse that might once have seemed inconceivable, the Republican Party's foreign policy expert in the Senate felt compelled to answer his president's barbs by tweeting: "It's a shame the White House has become an adult daycare centre. Someone obviously missed their shift this morning." It's a shame the White House has become an adult day care center. Someone obviously missed their shift this morning.&mdash;@SenBobCorker In an interview Sunday with the New York Times, Corker said Trump could set the U.S. "on the path to World War III" with threats toward other countries. Corker also said Trump acted as if he were on his old reality-TV show and that concerned the senator, adding: "He would have to concern anyone who cares about our nation." Corker also said his concerns about Trump were shared by nearly every Senate Republican, the paper reported. Series of angry Trump tweets In a series of stinging tweets earlier in the day, Trump contended Corker: Was "largely responsible for the horrendous" Iran nuclear deal, which the Democratic Obama administration negotiated and Corker considered badly flawed. The senator also tried to require that then-president Barack Obama submit the accord to Congress for approval. Intended to obstruct the White House agenda, though he offered no evidence for saying he expected Corker "to be a negative voice." "Begged" for Trump's endorsement in his 2018 re-election, then opted against seeking a third term when Trump declined, showing the senator "didn't have the guts to run." The Associated Press reported that Trump, in a private meeting in September, had urged Corker to run. Corker's chief of staff, Todd Womack, said Sunday that Trump called Corker last Monday to ask that he reconsider his decision to leave the Senate. Trump "reaffirmed that he would have endorsed him, as he has said many times," the aide said. Wanted to be secretary of state, and "I said 'NO THANKS,"' said Trump, who picked Exxon Mobil's Rex Tillerson for that Cabinet post. Corker, the Senate foreign relations committee chair, was mentioned as a possible pick after the election. Caucus agrees on Trump, Corker says Trump added another tweet Sunday evening: "Bob Corker gave us the Iran Deal, & that's about it. We need HealthCare, we need Tax Cuts/Reform, we need people that can get the job done!" Corker always had been one to speak his mind, and even before Sunday's verbal volleys, his new free agent status promised to make Trump and the party nervous. Already, there was the prospect of even more elbow room to say what he wants and to vote how he pleases over the next 15 months as Trump and the party's leaders on Capitol Hill struggle to get their agenda on track. Trump describes White House photo shoot as 'calm before the storm' AnalysisANALYSIS | Trump's tough trade talk targets Mexico but his actions are hitting Canada Not long before Trump's tweeting, White House budget director Mick Mulvaney said on NBC's Meet the Press that "it's going to be fun to work" with Corker, "especially now that he's not running for re-election, because I think it sort of unleashes him to do whatever — and say whatever — he wants to say." In his interview with the Times, Corker said: "Look, except for a few people, the vast majority of our caucus understands what we're dealing with here," adding that "of course they understand the volatility that we're dealing with and the tremendous amount of work that it takes by people around him to keep him in the middle of the road." Tillerson, Mattis separate U.S. 'from chaos' Corker, a fiscal hawk, is holding the Republican Party's feet to the fire on tax legislation, declaring that he'll oppose any measure that increases the national debt by a single cent. Republicans hold a narrow, 52-seat majority in the Senate, and just three defections would torpedo the top priority in their partisan push. Corker delivered a rebuke of the Trump White House after the president's provocative tweets undermined Tillerson's diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis with North Korea. Corker said Tillerson, along with Defence Secretary Jim Mattis and White House chief of staff John Kelly, are "those people that help separate our country from chaos." Trump's latest broadside came a day after he said he spoke to Minority leader Chuck Schumer about working on health-care legislation. (Jonathan Ernst/Reuters) And Corker will be at the centre of what may be a stormy debate over the future of the Iran agreement. Trump's hostility toward the deal has stoked concerns he's aiming to dismantle the international accord despite Europe's objections. Corker is opposed to scrapping the agreement outright. "You can only tear these things up one time," Corker said. "It might feel good for a second. But one of the things that's important for us is to keep our allies with us, especially our Western allies." Throwback to fiscally conservative Republicans Corker is the latest Republican to face Trump's wrath. The president in recent months has lit into Senate Majority leader Mitch McConnell over the failure of the party to repeal and replace Obama's health-care law, and specifically targeted senators John McCain and Lisa Murkowski for their opposition to health legislation. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, a Republican from Alaska, speaks in Washington in 2015. Murkowski has faced criticism from Trump recently over her opposition to Republican health-care legislation. (J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press) Trump's latest broadside came a day after he said he spoke to Minority leader Chuck Schumer about working on health-care legislation, a fresh example of his occasional outreach to Democrats. Corker, 65, announced last month that his second, six-year term would be his last. The self-described "citizen legislator" and former Tennessee finance commissioner now stands as a throwback to the fiscally diligent Republicans of yesteryear as his GOP colleagues embrace tax cuts that, they contend, will pay for themselves by spurring economic growth. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Opinion Here's why it would be wrong for Twitter to suspend Donald Trump's account Analysis 'It's not good for me. Believe me': Actually, Trump tax plan a boon for the rich, experts say I'm not going anywhere, Rex Tillerson says after report of frustration with Trump Trump-supported senator loses primary in Alabama Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now