Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Nova Scotia·Health Hacks Why you should ask health providers if they've had their flu shot yet With just 40 per cent of health providers opting for the shot, the question might be the best way to protect more people from the dreaded flu. Social Sharing Only about 40% of health-care providers in N.S. get the flu shot, says Mary Jane Hampton CBC News · Posted: Oct 29, 2019 7:30 AM AT | Last Updated: October 29, 2019 About 36 per cent of Nova Scotians get immunized against the flu each year. (Robert Short/CBC) comments This is part of a series from CBC's Information Morning where Halifax health-care consultant Mary Jane Hampton discusses her "health hacks" — ways to make your experience with the health-care system better. Have you had your flu shot yet? That question might be the best way to protect more Nova Scotians from the dreaded flu, according to health-care consultant Mary Jane Hampton. The number of people in the province who get immunized each year is "still really low" at about 36 per cent, she said.  "And you have to ask the question why? I mean it's so easy to get," she told CBC's Information Morning. "You can get a flu shot from a clinic, from a public health office, from any pharmacy. It's free." What really concerns Hampton is that she said only about 40 per cent of Nova Scotia's health-care providers get the vaccine at flu season. She added that the uptake is slightly higher at the IWK Health Centre, where it's 58 per cent. "You have to wonder if the rate within the health-provider community is so low, it's probably no surprise that the rate in the broader community is so low," Hampton said.  Health consultant Mary Jane Hampton says getting the flu shot is a matter of public safety. (Robert Short/CBC) She thinks the best way to get more people immunized is to ask about it.  "It is always safe to be on that moral high ground, so go and get your own flu shot first," she said. "But in the culture of patient safety, it is a perfectly reasonable question for you to ask your health provider if they've had the flu shot." If the provider replies that they haven't had the shot, a patient who is at a high risk of getting sick might decide to seek out a different provider, said Hampton.  While the provider's privacy is important, she said so is a patient's right to know.   Hampton said just 14 per cent of pregnant women in Nova Scotia get the flu shot. But the good news is that 90 cent of people in long-term care are getting the shot. "There continues to be, I think, everything from a false narrative around the value of the flu shot or the safety of the flu shot. There are people who are just phobic of needles," she said.  A public safety issue Nova Scotia will receive 461,000 doses of the flu vaccine this year, an increase of nearly 31,000 over last year, according to the province's Department of Health and Wellness. The supply arrives over a four-week period. Nova Scotia currently has about 88 per cent of its supply with the remainder expected by the end of the week, spokesperson Heather Fairbairn said in an email. "Providers may not have their full supply to start the program, but there will be ample vaccine and lots of opportunity for people to get their flu shot before the holidays when the flu season begins," she wrote. "We encourage all Nova Scotians to get the flu shot." Robert Strang, Nova Scotia's chief medical officer of health, told CBC Cape Breton's Mainstreet last week that he's not expecting anything out of the ordinary with this year's flu season, which officially began in mid-October.  "We never know until it's actually here, but in Nova Scotia, we typically get flu shortly after Christmas and then we have six to eight weeks of peak flu activity," he said.  Hampton said it's important for people to get the flu shot — not just so they stay healthy, but so the province's most vulnerable are protected too.  "We know there is all the evidence of how this is such a simple and effective public health safety measure, and I think if we talk of it in the context of safety rather than anything less, then it really does up the game," she said.  READ MORE FROM OUR HEALTH HACKS SERIES HEALTH HACKSWhat you need to know about drug recalls HEALTH HACKSFamily doctors alone will not meet the health needs of Nova Scotians HEALTH HACKSHow to get the health care you want if you don't have a family doctor Health HacksKicking nicotine can increase your odds of surviving cancer Health HacksGetting the best bang for your buck when it comes to prescription drugs MORE TOP STORIES:  Cornwallis task force seeks more input on Indigenous history 2 charged after man lit on fire in central Halifax CBC InvestigatesPrivacy experts slam National Bank asking customers for their password at other banks Flood-proofing for Canada's national building code gets U.S. expert's advice 'It's definitely worth it': U.K. recruitment trips bringing doctors to N.S. With files from CBC's Information Morning CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now