Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto·Analysis With Doug Ford joining PC leadership race, all bets are off Your mom's basement is admittedly an unlikely venue to announce your ambition to become premier of Ontario, but anybody who underestimates Doug Ford's chances to win the Ontario Progressive Conservative Party leadership does so at their peril. Social Sharing Compressed time frame, strict spending limits mean anyone could win Ontario PC party top job Mike Crawley · CBC News · Posted: Jan 30, 2018 6:00 AM ET | Last Updated: January 30, 2018 Former Toronto city councillor Doug Ford announced his intention to run for leader of the Ontario Progressive Conservative Party in a news conference at his mother's home in Toronto. (Frank Gunn/Canadian Press) comments Your mom's basement is a rather inauspicious venue to announce your ambition to become premier of Ontario, but anybody who underestimates Doug Ford's chances to win the Ontario Progressive Conservative Party leadership does so at their peril.  Ford declared his candidacy on Monday to lead a party in deep turmoil following the resignation of leader Patrick Brown over allegations of sexual misconduct. Ford is quickly trying to position himself as the populist choice in the race, the outsider, railing against the elites. Doug Ford joins the Ontario PC leadership race Ontario PC president steps down amid sexual assault allegations "Folks, make no mistake about it," he said in his short statement from the basement of his mother's Etobicoke house. "The elites of this party, the ones who have shut out the grassroots, do not want me in this race. But I'm here to give a voice to the hard-working taxpayers of this province, people who have been ignored for far too long." Ford's message might just resonate with a good chunk of the PC membership. And don't forget Ford's message already has proven popular with no small number of people in Toronto. When he stepped into the shoes of his better-known brother Rob Ford to run for mayor in 2014, he came second but won 20 of the city's 44 wards. He trounced John Tory in Etobicoke, Scarborough and North York, the key parts of Toronto that the PCs must swing their way to form a majority provincial government. It`s not a stretch to think he could replicate that success in the 905, the crucial battleground of Ontario politics, and of course in traditional Tory strongholds too.   Some political observers are already writing off Ford's candidacy.  Just so we're clear here: there is no chance Doug Ford will lead the Ontario Conservatives. Suspense now is over whether he realizes this.&mdash;@InklessPW But here are three key reasons why Ford's run can't be dismissed as irrelevant:   1. Short time frame Usually a leadership race is all about who works the hardest to sign up the greatest number of new members. But the PC membership is already at a record high 200,000, and the race will last only a few weeks. It means the winner will likely be the person who proves most popular with that existing membership base.  2. New fundraising limits The leadership race must abide by Ontario's new, much stricter, rules on political fundraising. Corporations and unions cannot donate and no person can give more than $1,200 to any leadership candidate. It reduces the potential for huge disparities in fundraising between candidates. In particular, this reins in what would have been one of Caroline Mulroney's huge advantages: the fundraising juggernaut of her father, former prime minister Brian Mulroney.  Caroline Mulroney, daughter of former prime minister Brian Mulroney, is the Ontario PC candidate for York-Simcoe and is being touted as a possible party leadership contender. (Justin Tang/Canadian Press) 3. Room on the right There has been much grumbling among ideological conservatives who felt that Patrick Brown took the party too far to the centre. None of the other names being touted as possible candidates seem likely to push the party to a more hard-line conservative stance, with the possible exception of Monte McNaughton. If McNaughton declines to run, Ford could position himself to win over both the populist side of the PC membership and the Tories who considered Brown to be Liberal-lite.  None of this is to say Ford will win. But all his opponents know that he will be a factor, if he qualifies to run. My sources are telling me the party will insist on a thorough vetting process for the leadership candidates, in the wake of the Brown allegations. Ford will have to open himself and his past up to some tough scrutiny from the party he wants to lead.  There's also talk the party committee organizing the leadership race is considering a rule that all candidates must formally support the PC platform that's already been developed. Would Doug Ford actually commit to a carbon tax? When the platform was unveiled in November, Ford gave it a general thumbs up to reporters, but it is not clear if he embraces it wholly.  The Ontario Progressive Conservative platform for the 2018 election features former party leader Patrick Brown prominently on its cover. Party officials insist that the policies in the platform still stand, despite Brown's resignation. (Mike Crawley/CBC) Ford`s move to throw his hat in the ring truly means the race is on. His declaration effectively snuffs out any chance party officials will reverse the decision to hold a leadership contest, rumours of which were spreading in PC circles.  Interim leader Vic Fedeli has also indicated he wants the permanent job. He will bring a significant amount of support from his caucus mates, but they only represent one-fifth of the ridings in the province, and the party's voting system gives equal weight to all 124 ridings. Sources indicate that Caroline Mulroney has a campaign team at the ready. While she is an experienced lawyer and investment banker, the knock against her will be that she has never held elected office. The same critique applies to Rod Phillips, the former CEO of Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corp. Sources say Phillips is considering a run, with backing from longtime PC bigwig Paul Godfrey. Ontario PCs to choose new leader in March Last-minute leaders haven't done so well in Ontario elections Others who have not ruled out a run include former deputy PC leader Christine Elliott and Durham MP Erin O'Toole. The party executive is scheduled to decide the race rules on Wednesday.  "Our party cannot go without a tested leader in this crucial time," Ford said Monday, revealing his tactics for challenging some of his potential opponents. "Right now, the party needs strong leadership, someone who's ready to clean up the mess and lead us into the June election." Still reeling from Brown's abrupt departure, the PC party is rudderless. The campaign machinery that ought to be operating full-tilt is sitting idle. The staff who were running the show are now focused on allying themselves with would-be leadership contenders.  All the energy that ought to be focused solely on taking down Kathleen Wynne and the Liberals is being spent on internal battles. It'll be nearly two months before the PCs have someone in place to make the run for premier. If that person ends up being Doug Ford, remember that it all began in his mom's basement.  ABOUT THE AUTHOR Mike Crawley Provincial Affairs Reporter Mike Crawley is provincial affairs reporter in Ontario for CBC News. He has won awards for his reporting on the eHealth spending scandal and flaws in Ontario's welfare-payment computer system. Before joining the CBC in 2005, Mike filed stories from 19 countries in Africa as a freelance journalist and worked as a newspaper reporter in B.C. Twitter @CBCQueensPark CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis Ontario PCs have had last-minute leaders before and it didn't go so well Ontario PC president steps down amid purge of Patrick Brown loyalists from top posts When #MeToo and Time's Up collide with Canadian politics Ontario PC party chooses Vic Fedeli as new interim leader Ontario PCs to hold leadership race before next election Patrick Brown resigns — how it happened and what happens next: Fisher Ontario PC Leader Patrick Brown denies sexual misconduct allegations Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now