Skip to Main Content Menu Search Search Sign In Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch COVID-19 Local updates Watch live COVID-19 tracker Vaccine tracker Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Toronto Wynne appoints candidate to challenge Tanya Granic Allen in Mississauga Centre Premier Kathleen Wynne has appointed Liberal candidates in three provincial ridings just weeks away from the June 7 provincial election, partly to counter one candidate she says has racist, homophobic views. Social Sharing Bobbie Daid will run against Granic Allen in Mississauga Centre Amara McLaughlin · CBC News · Posted: Apr 26, 2018 10:26 PM ET | Last Updated: April 27, 2018 Premier Kathleen Wynne appointed candidates in three ridings, including Mississauga Centre. (CBC) Premier Kathleen Wynne has appointed Liberal candidates in three provincial ridings just weeks away from the June 7 provincial election, partly to counter one candidate she says has racist, homophobic views.  Under the Ontario Liberal constitution, the leader can appoint up to five candidates. The premier says "it's not something that we use a lot" because the vast majority of ridings are open, local nominations.  Ontario PCs appoint candidates in 11 ridings weeks out from election Tanya Granic Allen won the PC nomination for Mississauga-Centre on Saturday. Wynne said she appointed Bobbie Daid because she's a hard-working, terrific candidate.  Below are the remaining ridings filled by the Liberals on Thursday and the candidates who will represent the party in each: Brampton East: Parminder Singh. Don Valley North: Shelley Carroll. Wynne replaced Shafqat Ali, who was vying for the nomination in Mississauga Centre, with Daid.    "The tenor of the debate with that particular Conservative candidate is something that I think we all need to be concerned about," Wynne said at a child-care announcement in downtown Toronto.  Tanya Granic Allen secured the PC party nomination in Mississauga Centre last weekend. (David Donnelly/CBC) Granic Allen, the former PC leadership contender, became known during her party leadership campaign for her strong stance against the sex education curriculum in Ontario's schools. She's also made controversial comments online about Muslims and the LGBT community. "The racism, the homophobia, the really divisive attitudes that she has demonstrated actually makes me surprised that she's a candidate for any major party in 2018," said Wynne.      "We will see what happens there. Bobbie Daid is a very strong, decent, hardworking, terrific candidate."  Wynne's move follows Ford's decision to unilaterally appoint 11 candidates last weekend. This sparked outrage in some corners of the PC party.   Corrections An earlier version of the story reported that Doug Ford had appointed Tanya Granic Allen, in fact she won the Ontario PC nomination for Mississauga-Centre. Apr 27, 2018 2:06 PM ET CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error Related Stories Ontario PCs appoint candidates in 11 ridings weeks out from election Tanya Granic Allen to run for PC nomination in Mississauga Centre Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters About CBC Membership Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Corrections and Clarifications Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2021 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca now